---
title: COVID–19 — Santa Ono’s address to the community (Apr. 24)
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-24
link: >-
  https://broadcastemail.ubc.ca/2020/04/24/covid-19-santa-onos-address-to-the-community-apr-24/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-ubc
---
If you are a manager of staff whose work is not computer-based, please print this email and display it in a common work area for them to review.

As we continue to respond to the impact of COVID-19, I would like to share my regular update on UBC’s response – including stories of how our community is coming together.

I always value this opportunity to not only share the latest updates, but also to shine a light on our faculty, staff and students, many of whom are doing incredible work during this challenging time.

This week I am highlighting the federal government’s $9 billion student aid package, which I’m sure has been welcome news to many of our students. I also pay tribute to UBC’s faculty and staff and discuss contingency planning for the Fall term.

You will find my update, in both video and text format, at https://president.ubc.ca/letter-to-the-community/2020/04/24/covid-update-april-24/. As in previous weeks, I am also pleased to close with a UBC musical performance in support of #SongsofComfort.

As we adjust to this new way of living, I want to encourage you to explore your own artistic and creative sides. Whether you play a musical instrument or not, being creative can support our wellbeing, and the wellbeing of those we love.

Santa J. Ono

President and Vice-Chancellor

This message was sent to faculty, staff and students in Vancouver and the Okanagan.

UBC Broadcast is used to communicate time sensitive, organization-wide information to faculty, staff and students. Learn more