---
title: Latest Updates on UVA’s Response to the Coronavirus
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-19
link: >-
  https://news.virginia.edu/content/latest-updates-uvas-response-coronavirus#april-27
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-virginia
---
Find the latest information on the University’s response to the coronavirus here.

Below are archived communications that were distributed to the University community regarding the coronavirus.

May 5: End-of-Semester Notice to International Students and Scholars

Dear UVA International Student and Scholar:

As we have grappled with the public health emergency associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the University of Virginia has made a number of important decisions about the University’s operations. These changes have affected the entire community in dramatic ways; they have had especially significant effects on our international students and scholars. We write to assure you that you are an integral part of our community, and we are committed to supporting you through these unprecedented challenges.

This has been a rapidly changing situation with new information emerging almost every day. The single most important goal remains doing our part to slow the spread of COVID-19, while continuing our missions as best we can, and making certain that our own community is cared for, supported, and remains safe.

The coronavirus continues to spread nationally and in the Charlottesville area as well, but mitigation efforts fortunately have helped to “flatten the curve.” For those of you who have returned to your home countries, I hope the transition to a virtual academic environment has gone relatively smoothly and you have found assistance when needed. We will also help you access summer courses remotely, as they become available, so you will be able to continue your instruction if you wish to do so.

For students who remain in Charlottesville in our residence halls, the University is pleased to extend University housing on Grounds from May 9 to May 24 at no additional cost. You can read the detailed housing message here. As noted in this message, if you are unable to return home when you leave on-Grounds housing in May, you are encouraged to begin thinking now about your housing plans for the summer. You may wish to check the University’s off-Grounds housing partners’ website, offgroundshousing.student.virginia.edu. There you can create an account and search for short-term rentals and summer sublets, according to your needs and plans.

As the U.S. continues to deal nationally with the pandemic, we cannot predict the complications that may arise from policy changes in the U.S. and other countries, including visa delays, border closures, and reduced travel options. Before undertaking any travel in connection with your enrollment at UVA, please continue to look for information from UVA’s International Studies Office and refer to your local U.S. embassy’s website through the U.S. Department of State for updates.

The International Studies Office remains available to work with you in considering options for managing the challenges connected with your enrollment during this difficult time. Please reach out to issp@virginia.edu with any questions or concerns.

Regardless of these challenges, one thing is certain: we are absolutely committed to continue providing a high-quality education to all of our students, including our international community, and overcome the pandemic-related obstacles we face together. Recently, President Ryan charged a planning committee to develop recommendations for the upcoming fall semester. Provost Magill is chairing the Fall 2020 Planning Committee, and it includes representation from across the University. The committee will consider a number of topics about the fall, including multiple scenarios around the academic delivery of courses. Additional information about the committee can be found here.

We would also like to take this opportunity to affirm our commitment to international diversity at UVA. Xenophobia and racism (bias) have no place in our community. As we work together and care for each other in this time of crisis, here are some resources you might find helpful: Community Care Statement and Resources. You should promptly report any acts of bias by using the Just Report It website.

We will continue to reach out to you with updates and information as needed. Please reach out to us with any questions or if you need support during this time.

Sincerely,

Stephen Mull

Vice Provost for Global Affairs

Allen W. Groves

University Dean of Students

April 29: Board of Visitors Statement on UVA’s Response to COVID-19 Pandemic

The University of Virginia Board of Visitors released the following statement today regarding the University’s response to the global COVID-19 pandemic:

“On Monday evening, the Board of Visitors participated in a virtual meeting to discuss the University’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our discussion included the actions UVA leadership has already taken to move the University online and to support students, faculty and staff in this period of unprecedented difficulty. We discussed the uncertainty around the progression of the virus in Virginia and the need to prepare for multiple scenarios for how the University may operate in the upcoming fall term. We also received an update on the major financial toll this crisis has taken on the University, particularly on UVA Health, as much of its operations have been suspended during this time. Additionally, we took preliminary steps to ensure that the University has expanded capacity to borrow funds if needed in the future.

“This pandemic has disrupted every element of University operations and changed life for members of this community in ways too numerous to count. The creative, compassionate and resilient response of the UVA leadership, student body, faculty and staff to this crisis is the clearest expression of what President Ryan means when he talks about a University that is great and good. We commend the steps the administration has taken to help mitigate the extraordinary strain this crisis has placed on the most vulnerable members of our community, including establishing new emergency funds to support people struggling with lost income. We recognize the difficulties many people in the UVA community are experiencing as a result of actions that were necessary to stabilize the University’s finances and will continue to evaluate the need for additional steps to help our colleagues, friends and neighbors in this difficult time.

“While no one knows how long this pandemic will last or how severe the costs will be, we are fortunate to have leaders in every corner of this University who are finding ways to deliver on our mission of excellent academic instruction, life-changing research, world-class health care and strong partnership in the Charlottesville community. The Board of Visitors is grateful for the work and the sacrifice of so many who are responding to this crisis and we are ready to continue the work of navigating this difficult period as one UVA community. We are confident the University of Virginia will endure this crisis, learn some valuable lessons about creativity and resilience, and continue its pursuit of being the best public university in the country by 2030.”

April 27: How Students May Retrieve Their Belongings

Dear Parents and Guardians:

Many of you have been waiting patiently for this information, and today I am happy to share details on how students will be able to come back in May to retrieve their belongings from the residence halls. We are sending the message to all parents and guardians in the interest of sharing the information broadly.

Please note, this message only pertains to undergraduate students who lived on Grounds and to graduate students who lived on the Range. I am pleased to share these plans also include students who lived in Bice, Bond, or one of the three language houses (Shea, Maison Francaise, and Casa Bolivar). In response to a request from UVA Health, we prepared plans and procedures to use these five buildings to support the regional pandemic response, which Housing & Residence Life shared with students on April 5 and 6. Due to successful mitigation efforts, the University has not needed to use these buildings thus far, and we do not anticipate needing them in the near future.

Students received a message from University Dean of Students Allen Groves a short time ago. It includes the link to the message students received from Housing & Residence Life with very detailed information about the move-out process. I will highlight several key points:

Students will have two primary options from which they can choose. They include returning with one person to move out of their housing themselves, or designating an individual to handle move-out for them. As a last resort, if students are unable to make a move-out appointment in May, they may choose to have their possessions packed and stored at the University’s expense, or they can pay to have their belongings shipped to them at the time of packing.

Students will need to let Housing & Residence Life know which option they select no later than May 21 .

. The move-out period will run from Monday, May 4, through Sunday, May 24 . If students choose Option 1 or 2, they will need to select an appointment time and be sure to arrive promptly.

. If students choose Option 1 or 2, they will need to select an appointment time and be sure to arrive promptly. Anyone feeling ill should cancel or reschedule their appointment.

It will be important to follow safety and social distancing directives during the move-out process. This includes following CDC Guidelines, including providing your own face coverings and maintaining a distance of six feet from others.

If your student is one of the 213 students who received permission to remain on Grounds this semester, they will receive more individualized instructions for move-out.

The pandemic has been an incredibly difficult experience for all of us. Even if we have not been directly touched by the loss of life, COVID-19 has brought stress in many forms. We recognize the added stress for you and your student with regard to move-out. We hope the options available to you and your student will ensure a combination of safety, flexibility, and resolution as we work together during this time of continuing uncertainty and sacrifice.

If you or your student has questions, please contact Housing & Residence Life at housing@virginia.edu.

Sincerely,

Patricia M. Lampkin

Vice President and Chief Student Affairs Officer

April 17: President Provides Updates for Final Exercises Options

To the Class of 2020,

I write today with an update on a topic many of you have been wondering about: Final Exercises.

I know how much all of you were looking forward to Final Exercises and how disappointed many of you are that the ceremonies had to be moved. Graduation isn’t just a chance to walk the Lawn and get your diploma. It’s a time to say goodbye to your friends; to thank your families for the sacrifices they’ve made and the support they’ve provided; to let your professors know how much you appreciate them; to have one more bagel, go on one more hike, and sing the Good Old Song one more time. It’s an incredibly special moment—and one every graduate of the University should have a chance to experience.

Over the last few weeks, we’ve heard from many of you hoping that we would be able to hold Final Exercises on a different date. That’s been our hope, too, which is why we convened a committee made up of undergraduate and graduate students as well as faculty and staff to look at different options for Final Exercises. Following the committee’s recommendation, we are planning the following:

We will hold a virtual ceremony on the original date of Final Exercises, May 16, 2020, to confer degrees. This will serve as the official end of the academic year and allow all those who earned their degrees to graduate on time. We are planning something memorable to mark the occasion, and will have more details to share soon. We will hold Final Exercises on the Lawn, either this fall or next spring. We are holding the weekend of October 9-11, 2020, which coincides with fall reading days. Because we do not yet know whether it will be safe to have a large gathering in October, we are also holding May 28-30, 2021 as a backup, which is the weekend after the Class of 2021 will walk the Lawn. Given the continued uncertainty about COVID-19, we recommend against making travel plans for October until we know more; we simply wanted you to know now the dates we are holding on our calendars so that you can hold them on yours. We will follow up with more definite information in June. Schools and departments are planning to hold their own in-person ceremonies as well, although details—including possible dates—are still being worked out. As more details become available, we will post them on the Class of 2020 Final Exercises website.

This year’s Final Exercises will be different in some respects from the ones we had originally planned, and had been looking forward to. But we will do everything we can to make these ceremonies a fitting end to your time at UVA. While every class at UVA is special, yours is truly unique—and these Final Exercises will be, too. I expect it will be one of the most joyful occasions the Lawn has ever seen, and a moment all of us will remember forever. I look forward to seeing you there.

Jim Ryan

President

April 15: Message to Students Outlining Grading Options

Dear Undergraduate Students,

As you know, on March 18, 2020, Provost Liz Magill approved a new default grading option for all undergraduate classes this spring (CR/NC). In response to input from faculty and students, she recently added a third grade to the default grading option. Here is an explanation of each grade:

• Credit (CR): awarded if you meet the class’s requirements for credit (C or higher). For Spring 2020 only, CR will meet all undergraduate degree requirements, including prerequisites, general education, major, minor, etc. CR will not affect your GPA.

• General Credit (GC): awarded if you receive a passing grade below a C. GC will earn the credit hours associated with the course and will fill undergraduate requirements that can be met by a passing grade lower than C. GC will not affect your GPA.

• No Credit (NC): Awarded if you receive a grade of F. This grade will not earn credit or meet any requirements. NC will not affect your GPA.

On Friday, April 24, 2020, at 8 a.m. EDT, all of your classes will be converted to the default grading option of Cred/GenCred/NoCred Spring 2020. At that time, you may, if you wish, change any (or all) of your classes back to the standard grading option (A through F).

You will have until Tuesday, April 28, 2020, at 11:59 p.m. EDT to make this decision and you may change your mind for any class up until the deadline. You will not be able to change the grading option for any class after 11:59 p.m. EDT on April 28, 2020.

All undergraduate transcripts for the Spring 2020 term will note that CR/GC/NC grading was the default grading option for UVA undergraduate classes in response to the global pandemic.

Fall 2020 Enrollment Update

To implement the Spring 2020 default grading option and give you the opportunity to select which option you prefer for each class, we must temporarily stop enrollment for Fall 2020 classes. Fall 2020 enrollment will be temporarily suspended at 11:59 p.m. on Thursday, April 23, 2020, and will resume at 8 a.m. EDT on Wednesday, April 29, 2020.

Spring 2020 Grading Options

To summarize, beginning at 8 a.m. EDT on Friday, April 24, 2020, you will have two options for each of the classes you are taking this semester. Each option is explained below and in this infographic.

Option 1

Take no action. All of your classes will use the default grading scheme of Credit/General Credit/No Credit (CR/GC/NC). Your grades will not impact your GPA.

Option 2

Take action before 11:59 p.m. EDT on Tuesday, April 28, 2020. For any or all of your classes, select the standard grading option of Graded (A+ through F). This grading scheme will impact your GPA.

To make changes to the grading option for any class, follow these steps.

Deadline for Changes: You may change grading options as many times as you’d like, but final changes must be in place by 11:59 p.m. EDT on April 28, 2020, the last day of classes. You will not be able to change your grading option after the deadline passes.

In making your decision about whether to change your grading options, remember that some graduate and professional schools are updating their policies as the pandemic progresses. If you hope to apply to graduate or professional school, please consult the websites of your preferred schools for information about their policies on accepting CR/NC due to the global pandemic.

If you have questions or concerns about your grading options for this term and their implications for degree completion, please contact your school of enrollment.

We know this has been a challenging semester for you and your families. We hope you are safe and well. Those of us in the Office of the University Registrar and in your schools are here if you need us. You may reach me at ureg@virginia.edu if you have questions or concerns.

Kind regards,

Laura F. Hawthorne

Associate Vice Provost and University Registrar

April 14: Update From UVA Leaders to Employees on Financial Impact of COVID-19

Dear Colleagues:

First and foremost, our deepest thanks to all of you for your extraordinary efforts during this extraordinary time. Because of your dedication, hard work, and creativity, we have managed to continue the core mission of this University—advancing knowledge and the common good through excellent teaching, research, and clinical care. We have also served our community and the Commonwealth, largely through the heroic work of those in the health system, but also through innovative and timely research, partnerships with the City and County, and volunteer efforts made by so many of you. Despite the pressures and significant disruptions to your professional and home lives, you have all performed exceptional work in supporting our patients, our students, each other, and the Charlottesville community.

If there were ever a time to be both great and good, this is surely it, and that is precisely what you have been as a community. As difficult as this period has been, it has also been a time filled with inspiring acts of generosity, ingenuity, and kindness.

All that said, the challenges presented by this crisis are difficult to exaggerate. The pandemic has not simply made fulfilling our core mission more difficult. It also has had—and continues to have—serious financial consequences for the University.

We are writing today to describe those consequences, the principles that will guide our responses, and the immediate steps we are taking to meet these challenges.

The University has already suffered major financial losses in the academic division and in the health system. As this pandemic continues, we will see additional revenue shortfalls across nearly all categories of funding, including tuition, state funding, clinical care, research grants, endowment returns, and philanthropy. While the full costs are not yet known, they are large and will grow over the next few months, especially in the health system. At the same time, the economy and financial markets remain volatile, and there is a good chance of a sustained economic downturn.

For all of those reasons, we are going to have to tighten our belts, just like other organizations and universities across the country. We also have to be prepared to absorb additional disruptions to our operations and finances, especially if we cannot resume normal operations next fall. Although we hope to restart normally in the fall, it is still too early to know if that will be possible.

As always, but especially now, we must be exceptionally good stewards of our resources so that we can continue to carry out our core mission, and in so doing be of service to the Commonwealth and beyond. At the same time, we must never forget that the people at UVA—our faculty, staff, and students—remain our greatest asset, and will be the key to our ability to weather this crisis and recover with strength. With that in mind, three principles will guide our actions and decisions during this challenging period, and we ask that leaders across the University follow them as well:

1. Maintain excellence in our core mission.

Above all else, we must strive to maintain excellence in our teaching, research, and clinical care. This requires focusing on the essential and deferring non-essential programs or projects.



2. Support the most vulnerable.

We must attend most immediately to those with COVID-19. Beyond caring for our patients, we will strive to share the burdens of any cost-cutting measures across our community. We will also remain committed to access and affordability for our students and to meeting 100% of their financial need.



3. Be creative.

We must look for new and creative ways to work together efficiently and effectively, to conserve our resources, and to generate new revenue. A silver lining of this crisis is that it has shown how nimble and innovative we can be when needed. We must continue in the same spirit.



*****

With these principles in mind, and as described more fully in a memo going to University leaders, today we are announcing the following policies:

Hiring Freeze: There will be a pause in University-wide hiring for open faculty, staff, and health system team member positions, unless an exception is approved by executive leadership.

Salary Freeze: There will be no merit increases for the next fiscal year.

Limiting Capital Projects: The University will proceed only with capital projects that are already in design or construction and that are fully funded.

Expense Reduction: All schools and units will cut or eliminate all non-essential expenses.

Senior Leadership Pay Cuts: The executive leadership team will take a 10% salary reduction.

We will continue to review our finances and operations over the coming weeks and months, and we will communicate with you about any additional steps we must take, as well as the rationale for those decisions. We expect the steps we have outlined here to help us mitigate the immediate impact of the pandemic and to carry us through until we have made decisions about the fall. Once those decisions are made, we will necessarily reassess our situation. Consistent with our guiding principles, we remain committed to avoiding furloughs or layoffs for as long as possible and to utilizing them only if absolutely necessary. That said, the health system may have no choice but to turn to these steps sooner rather than later given the serious financial situation they are facing because of the significant disruption to clinical care.

These are not decisions we make lightly, as we know they will be disruptive and difficult. But we are in a period of shared sacrifice, with more challenges ahead. We will meet these challenges by focusing on our core mission, by doing our best to support one another, and by continuing to look for creative solutions.

We will get through this, together. This is an exceptional community, and in exceptional communities, extraordinary challenges bring forth extraordinary responses. We have already seen many, and we know we will see even more in the days to come.

Thank you again for all that you are doing. It is an honor to serve alongside all of you.

Best,

Jim Ryan

President

Liz Magill

Provost

K. Craig Kent

EVP for Health Affairs

J.J. Davis

EVP and Chief Operating Officer

April 14: Financial Impact Memo to Deans, Vice Presidents, Vice Provosts and Other Leaders

Dear Colleagues:

As described in the letter from President Ryan and the three of us earlier today, the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on the University’s teaching, research, and clinical care activities, as well as deeply disruptive effects on the economy as a whole. In response to the dramatic changes in the University’s fiscal outlook, we must begin to address the short- and long-term financial effects on the University’s mission-critical operations.

Accordingly, we write to announce immediate actions to maintain excellence in our core mission, uphold our commitment to students, patients, faculty, staff, and team members, and advance our highest priorities – all while safeguarding the long-term health of the institution. Given the high degree of uncertainty about the future course of the pandemic and its further effect on the University, we must have a variety of options on the table. As a first step, and effective immediately:

There will be an immediate pause in hiring for faculty, staff, and team member positions, with only critical searches moving forward, subject to the approval of the relevant Executive Vice President. Deans should consult with the Provost (and, for the schools of medicine and nursing, also with the EVP of Health Affairs) as soon as possible to review the status of faculty recruitment plans authorized for this year and jointly decide which positions should continue as exceptions to the general hiring freeze and which should be deferred. Details will be forthcoming regarding the process for considering exceptions for staff and team member positions.

Immediately and through the end of fiscal year 2021, compensation (regardless of funding source) will be frozen at current levels, with only contractually required increases allowed and those related to promotion or internal equity, which must be approved by the relevant Executive Vice President(s).

Across the University and in the health system, employees’ ability to cash out Paid Time Off (PTO) will be suspended, effective immediately and until further notice. We recognize, however, that under current circumstances some staff and team members will have difficulty taking planned leave. Accordingly, we will increase the cap on carrying forward unused PTO hours from 2020 into 2021. Further details will be forthcoming from University HR about this policy.

To preserve maximum flexibility and conserve resources, we expect all schools, the health system, and all units to reduce all non-essential current expenses and use the most restricted funds first. No new programs should be initiated unless specifically evaluated and approved by the relevant Executive Vice President.

Within the next few weeks, schools, departments, units, and the health system will receive further direction to re-state previously submitted FY21 budget plans. Revised planning parameters will reflect adjusted expense assumptions for compensation and central services costs, as well as projected revenue declines including, but not limited to, tuition and state appropriations, clinical care, Provost Support Fund, sales and services, philanthropy, and endowment returns. Schools will also need to evaluate the impact on sponsored research, which will vary by sponsor and grant.

The University will proceed only with capital projects that are already in design or construction and that are fully funded. In light of the impact of COVID-19, reevaluation and reestablishment of funding sources is necessary. The relevant Executive Vice President(s) will reach out to schools, the health system, and units to re-evaluate all plans in light of the current situation before moving forward. New feasibility or design studies will be deferred.

The health system team will be meeting with various stakeholders over the coming days to develop a specific plan for the health system.

These are initial steps to help the University begin to address the unprecedented fiscal issues facing us. Under the University Financial Model used in the Academic Division, we will also look to the Deans and other leaders to take the steps necessary to safeguard their units’ core mission, ensure their financial health, and seek out opportunities for reallocation and efficiencies that strengthen their strategic focus.

The global economic and public health impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has the potential to have the most disruptive consequences of any downturn any of us has experienced in our lifetimes, reshaping how the University undertakes its missions of teaching, research, service, and patient care. As further implications come into focus, we may need to take additional steps.

The challenges ahead are daunting, but we are confident that if we act quickly and responsibly, and in accordance with our principles and strategic aspirations, our University – and the shared mission that gives us our collective purpose – will flourish.

April 9: Message to Faculty From Provost Liz Magill

Dear Members of the Faculty at UVA,

Let me first express my hope that you and yours are safe and healthy during this difficult period, and, second, my appreciation for the exceptional work that you, along with all of our staff, are doing to continue our core missions as we grapple with this public health emergency.

Throughout this challenging time, our actions have been guided by the desire to protect the health of our community (students, faculty, staff and Charlottesville neighbors), to help “flatten the curve,” and to ensure the continuity of our teaching, research and clinical care. Most recently, we adjusted our grading policy for this term (there will be an update sent to deans on the mechanics of this shortly), shifted our research enterprise to key functions only, and moved Summer Sessions 1 and 2 online.

Today, I write to share that, given the extraordinary challenges we are facing with the COVID-19 emergency and the resulting disruption of regular teaching, research, clinical practice and service, the University is providing an across-the-board, one-year extension to the tenure clock for tenure-track faculty who meet certain eligibility criteria (details are here). Faculty may opt out of this automatic extension. We have adopted this provision for extension of the tenure clock pursuant to the Provost’s Promotion and Tenure Policy (PROV-017).

The reason for this action is straightforward. Our faculty have had to reinvent their courses to be taught online and struggled to preserve research programs, with labs closed, conferences canceled and research assistants gone. Our UVA Health faculty have found themselves at the front line of this emergency as they are working to provide clinical care. The consequences of this pandemic are continuing to unfold and will be experienced differently across the University. This is a challenge for all faculty and staff, but particularly for our tenure-track faculty in their probationary period. Such tenure-seeking faculty have an ambitious set of expectations that they must meet within a short period, including demonstrated excellence in teaching, research/scholarship, clinical responsibilities; the development of a national reputation; and performance of University and professional service. While individual extensions of the tenure clock are permitted under University policy, given the current circumstances, we are extending the tenure clock across the board to support the success of our tenure-track faculty by compensating for the time lost due to the current crisis.

Other faculty members who are experiencing disruption of their efforts to prepare for promotion or renewal due to the present public health emergency are encouraged to discuss this with their supervisor or dean. Members of our Academic General Faculty may have questions about their efforts to prepare for promotion or renewal, and those questions should be addressed to their school dean or associate dean. The schools retain flexibility to respond to such requests with provost approval, as described in our University-wide policy, linked here.

Eligibility criteria and implementation details of the tenure clock extension are available, as noted above, here. We recognize that faculty may have questions regarding their individual cases. If so, please reach out to your department chair or dean, or you may write to vpfa@virginia.edu and we will follow up with you.

I am grateful to each of you for the work you are doing in support of the University of Virginia. It is an honor and privilege to work with you.

Sincerely,

Liz Magill

Provost, University of Virginia

April 7: Letter to Parents and Guardians

Dear Parents and Guardians:

These are hard times for everyone. As we experience a global pandemic that is expected to worsen in coming days in our area of the country, the University is joining with entities at the local, regional and state level to share resources that may be needed for the health 