---
title: Information for PhD Students
subtitle: I am a research degree (i.e. PhD or MPhil, or professional doctorate) student - what does this mean for me?
date: 2020-04-02
link: >-
  http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/coronavirus-faqs/information-for-phd-students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qub
---
The varied nature of research degree projects, and different points in time for individual students, means that there is no single response for students on research degrees. Please speak to your supervisor about your specific circumstances.

  * Some students’ projects will be able to continue remotely, with working from home and using electronic resources. Supervisions can also take place digitally, and continue on a monthly basis for students who are continuing to work. Records of formal meetings should continue to be uploaded to Qsis.


  * For projects reliant on significant human contact or fieldwork, the University has indicated that no students or staff should be undertaking travel related to their research or studies. All experimental work (including postgraduate and postdoctoral) should be discussed with supervisors in order to ensure safe discontinuation of non-essential experiments and safe arrangements for critical work which may need to be continued.



Where students are continuing with their project remotely, they should also continue to prepare as normal for their academic milestone meetings (differentiation or annual progress review) or viva submission.  See below FAQs for further information.

It may be that where a research project is reliant on face to face human contact, lab or fieldwork, there is a period of time when other (remote) work can be undertaken to enable continuation of the project. It might be appropriate for you to focus on writing, reflection, preparing for a progress review, communicating research, and other tasks as appropriate to your work. This should be discussed with your supervisor, and a timeframe set to review (minimum monthly).

Students may also be able to take this time to undertake development activities. The Graduate School will provide ongoing support and development digitally for students, and there are a range of online courses and MOOCs available to build skill sets, such as use of software, communication skills or methods of analysis. RTSG may be able to support online learning courses with an associated fee.

  * The University recognises that some students’ progress may be demonstrably disrupted, and remote working may not be practicable, either due to the nature of the research, or other elements such as caring responsibilities. Impact on a student’s research will be considered on a case by case basis. To determine this impact, it is strongly advised that you keep a log of any lost time whether that be due for example, to lack of access to appropriate resource, a period of illness, you need to attend to caring responsibilities, or a return to clinical duties.



Research students are able to take a temporary withdrawal (leave of absence), to prevent any impact on timeframe to completion. This should be agreed in consultation with your supervisor.

Students must consider the requirements of their visa, if applicable. If you are an international student from outside the EU and need additional advice, please contact International Student Support via [**immigration@qub.ac.uk**](mailto:immigration@qub.ac.uk).
