---
title: Taught student email 7 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
To all University of Leeds students,

In recent days, you have raised important questions with us through a number of routes – by speaking with your student representatives, your personal tutor, by emailing us directly or by signing a petition.  I wanted to write to all students with our reply.

Firstly, I want to thank you all for the constructive and thoughtful way in which your questions and concerns have been framed, and for how you acknowledge the work being done. It is so important that we continue to work constructively together. As we said in our joint message from your LUU Officers and the University last week: “We are one community and this means more now than it ever has before.” 

I also want to particularly thank all the school and course representatives, who are so effectively representing student voices, even in these difficult circumstances. Here at Leeds, we are proud to work in partnership. This not only applies to working closely with your elected LUU Executive Officer team, who have helped to shape the updated FAQs we are sharing with you today, but also through existing shared mechanisms, such as staff-student forums, and your regular conversations within your school and programme. Your personal tutor, supervisor or another academic support contact will keep in touch with you regularly during this time. We are here to support you.

I want to reassure you that we have procedures in place that mean Assessment Boards will take account of all the circumstances that may have influenced your ability to demonstrate the learning outcomes of your degree. We can see that you are engaging with online learning in an impressive way, and it would not be fair to undermine the significance of the work and learning that is going to continue. Equally, we are committed to ensuring that those of you who cannot engage remotely because of individual circumstances will not suffer in your degree outcome as a result of those circumstances. Do speak with your school if you have specific questions about what this means for you.

I know it is tempting to want a simple headline but, in fact, the circumstances of individual students vary enormously. Most ‘easy answers’ quickly become complex when implemented. We are also needing to respond to the requirements of external regulatory organisations - from professional bodies, the Quality Assurance Agency, and the Office for Students. 

We also know that our Masters students have particular questions and that some of our University-wide messaging may not always feel applicable but we have been led by the same principles for all students – aiming to enable you to complete your degree (or to progress between years) within our usual timeframes. 

This is why we have taken a little bit of time to work through our approach before updating our FAQs, including our approach to ‘no-detriment’ and ‘safety-net’, which are now live on the coronavirus website 

So, thank you again for the constructive and understanding way you have engaged with us. Keep talking to your student reps, to LUU and to the teachers and student support team in your school. Please be assured that we are listening to all your feedback. 

With best wishes,
Tom

Professor Tom Ward
Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Student Education