---
title: All student newsletter sent 27 March 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-27
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
Dear students, 

These are challenging and unprecedented times. We know you have questions about your studies with us and we want to reassure you of our commitment to providing the support you need to succeed. We are hugely grateful for all the comments, suggestions and concerns you are raising with us directly, by email, through Leeds University Union (LUU), through your Schools and Tutors and your Course Reps. Thanks for letting us know where things are going well and where we can improve things, and also for helping us to understand the particular circumstances you find yourselves in.

Because of the understandable volume of enquiries and petitions, and the practical difficulties of remote working, I’m afraid we are not going to be able to respond to emails individually. All the emails that come in are being read, and they have contributed to the continued development of our thinking. 

Continuing to learn together
We know that each of you may be facing quite different situations at the moment. As well as your studies, you may have other responsibilities, such as caring for friends or family. We sincerely hope not, but you may be ill yourself. We understand. It is helpful for us all to acknowledge that it will take a bit of time to establish and become accustomed to new ways of learning together, appreciating that it will feel different for different students (and indeed for your teachers). 

Support for your academic journey
Our priority is to ensure that you are supported. A key element of our approach at Leeds has always been personal tutoring. So, following consultation with LUU, we’ve agreed that you will receive more regular contact from a member of our academic community, with contact at least every two weeks, to check on your progress with online teaching, your preparation for any assessments and your plans for next year.
In many cases, this will be the personal tutor you are used to hearing from (though you may know them by a different title, such as ‘development tutor’ or ‘academic support lead’). In other cases, we will ask another colleague to become your main contact for academic support. This is part of our planning to ensure that we can dedicate time to be in such regular contact. 
You will appreciate that we are needing to consider different scenarios for your teachers too – they may now have children learning at home, or they or a member of their household may become unwell, for example, so we need to take a whole community approach.

Answering your questions
We have created a series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on the dedicated coronavirus website. We are updating this information regularly so that webpage should always be your first point of reference. If you haven’t yet read the FAQs, please take a look and familiarise yourself with the arrangements we are putting in place to support your education. Learning and teaching will continue online after Easter and we will do everything we can to support you to engage with those learning opportunities, no matter what your circumstances.  

Thinking ahead about assessments
In our message to all students and staff on 17 March (Student-education-arrangements), we laid out the approach we will be taking to assessments. Please read these ‘student education arrangements’ carefully so that you understand what this means for you.  If we already make reasonable adjustments  for your assessments, Disability Services and your School will think through how these might apply to the new arrangements.  
To ensure that the value of your degree is maintained, there will be a review of all assessment plans, taking account of the many different situations and support needs that our students may have. We are committed to completing this (and confirming the outcome to you) by 17 April at the latest.

Mitigating Circumstances
Please don’t forget that your Schools are used to adapting assessments for individual students who have to cope with difficult circumstances. We hope the changes we are making will make it possible for most students to continue with their studies this academic year but, if for whatever reason you’re not able to do this, we will protect your interests and ensure that you are able to progress and graduate. We consider the current situation to be mitigating circumstances for all students, but please contact your School as normal using the Mitigating Circumstances Procedure if you wish your School to consider factors which relate to your own individual position.

Progression and Classification
As we have already outlined, unless there are specific professional accreditation requirements, all students will be able to progress from their current level of study. We will work hard to support you at your next level to ensure you are able to cope with the demands of that study next year. Please do not worry if you think you won’t have enough credits, or that your marks are not as good as they should have been. 
This year final year students will be classified in accordance with our existing Rules for Award. For first degrees, this means we will take into account your performance in previous years. Additionally, Assessment Boards will consider your classification under special circumstances discretion, recognising the challenges you have faced this year.  
In 2020/21 we expect that undergraduate first degrees will be classified on final year marks only, so poor results this year should not affect your overall classification. However, if you do well in your assessments this year, this will be taken into consideration in calculating your final classification.   

Support available online
If you need help and support, we are here for you, but in order to enable our colleagues to comply with the government instruction to stay at home, you’ll need to access support online or by email. You can contact your School support team using the usual email address. You can also access support through LUU and Support Services via email or online.
For support with learning online and for any questions you have about learning resources, systems or tools available, please contact our dedicated helpdesk at digitaleducation@leeds.ac.uk. 

Thank you again for how well you have responded to this extraordinary set of circumstances. Do please maintain contact with your school, personal tutor, and with each other. We remain an educational community wherever we are in the world. 

Best wishes,

Tom Ward, Deputy Vice-Chancellor