---
title: Student newsletter 3 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-03
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
Getting the information you need

We know there is lots of information being circulated at the moment. Our dedicated coronavirus website should help you find the university specific information you need to get through this difficult time. Please regularly check this for updated advice. 

Many of you may have questions about the situation and how it affects your studies. We hope our frequently asked questions (FAQs) helps provide the answers you need. If you can’t find the information you need, please get in touch with your School’s student support officer.

We recognise some of you may need financial support. Find out about our hardship fund.

Joint message from your LUU officers and the University

Yesterday, LUU officers and the Deputy Vice-Chancellors wrote to you about how we’re working in partnership to overcome the challenges we all face. We want to make sure your best interests are protected during the upcoming assessment period, and that when you graduate, you get the degree you deserve. A degree that is just as valued for your future as a Leeds degree in any other year. We’re working on more specific guidance which we will send through soon. Until then, please keep talking to your reps and the staff in your School, keep in touch with LUU, and remember: we are one community and this means more now than it ever has before.  

Staying connected

Staying at home or away from others is difficult. We understand this. We also recognise the importance of following the government’s guidance on staying home. Please do all you can to help reduce the spread of the virus. Think about how you can use technology to stay connected with family, friends, classmates and your personal tutors. 

We understand that some students, including many international students, are remaining in Leeds and may have worries about getting practical or emotional support during this time. Your school’s student support team are your first point of contact if you need any help. If you are living in a University residence you should also contact Residence Life.

While University support services are now working remotely, we are still here to support you. Find information on how to access the support and wellbeing services. 

Looking after yourself

It’s important to take time out of your day to look after your physical health and your mental wellbeing. Last week, we shared information on how you can do this. If you’ve not had a chance to read the newsletter, spend a few minutes today going through it. Think about what you can do to help take care of yourself and plan parts of your days around these activities. 

Our sustainability team have also put together 10 feel-good isolation activities that will keep your body moving, your brain ticking and your soul uplifted at this strange time. 

Accessing systems

We know transitioning to online learning may be a challenge, and we are doing all we can to help you continue your learning from home. We’ve put together information to help support you through this. This information includes tips on getting ready to learn online, systems you can access remotely and details about library resources available.
Desktop anywhere

You can now access Desktop Anywhere between 6pm and 6am every day. You need to use the new service “Desktop Anywhere 2017-18 – Students” to do this. Find out how to set this up on the IT website. If you have files you need on your M: drive we recommend you use the new service to move them to OneDrive so that you can access them at any time.

Minerva upgrade during Easter

Minerva will be unavailable from 4pm on Monday 13 April until 1pm Tuesday 14 April.
This is an essential upgrade. While Minerva is being upgraded it will not be available and you won’t have access to content. Please plan for the Minerva downtime by retrieving material you know you will need in advance.

Effective ways to study remotely

Our students now have free upgraded access to all University of Leeds courses on FutureLearn via FutureLearn Campus. These courses cover a variety of different subject areas and themes.

One of the key courses we recommend is ‘Preparing to Learn Online at University’. This course gives you all the information you will need to be an effective remote learner.  This is open for enrolment now and new start dates will continue to become available.

All our FutureLearn courses are accessed through our Minerva FutureLearn Campus page.

The Library is open online!
You can get in touch with the Library if there is an item you need. You can suggest a purchase and we will do our best to get hold of a digital version of it.

Our Skills@Library workshops are open to everyone through Minerva, there’s no need book! You can also request a one-to-one appointment for academic skills or maths and statistics. Follow @UoLLibrary for service and advice updates.

Careers services available online – from appointments to webinars
The Careers Centre may be closed for now, but you can access loads of our services online. Unsure what all these changes mean for your future? Looking to get career planning while you've got some free time? We can offer full appointments with advisors through video chat - plus we've got loads of events and webinars available online too.

Book an online Careers appointment and explore our online services using MyCareer, just use your normal student login.

LinkedIn Learning competition
Every time you watch a video on LinkedIn Learning between 23 March and 24 April 2020, you’ll be entered into a prize draw to win one of three £100 Love2Shop vouchers, with Easter egg runner-up prizes. The more videos you watch, the more entries to the prize draw you'll have. If you've never used LinkedIn Learning before see the quick start guide on the IT website.