---
title: All student newsletter sent 27 March 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-27
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
We’re here for you

We know and recognise staying at home can be challenging. We want to remind you, we are here for you. We’ll continue sharing tips, info and advice on looking after your physical and mental health. 

We’ll also be sharing this and other useful information in our Facebook group for current students and through @UoLStudents on Twitter. 

Like you, most of our staff are also working remotely. They’re continuing to update students.leeds.ac.uk with the latest guidance. We’re also keeping the dedicated coronavirus website updated with the latest advice – please check this regularly for up-to-date information.

Email the student communications team with any suggestions and improvements to the newsletter.

If you need help and support with non-academic issues, get in touch your Schools and student support officers. 

Stay connected while social distancing

Social distancing

Earlier this week, the UK government updated its instructions about when you should leave your home. It says:

Only go outside to shop for basic necessities such as food and medicine or for health reasons, to exercise on your own or only with people you live with, or for work (where this absolutely cannot be done from home) 

Stay two metres (6ft) away from other people

Wash your hands as soon as you get home.

Help reduce the spread of coronavirus by protecting yourself, and people who are vulnerable, by following this advice.

This week, Michelle Donelan, the universities minister, wrote to students in higher education to explain the latest developments in the battle against the coronavirus outbreak. You can read the letter on the Office of Students website.

Staying social

Connecting with others is really important, especially at times like these. Social distancing and self-isolation might make that feel really difficult, but there are things you can do to stay in touch with others: videochat, phone, text, email, and message – use whatever works for you, your friends and your family. 

Be mindful of how much information you’re taking in from social media – limit yourself to reading information from official sources, and you might find it beneficial to only check for new updates at certain times of the day.  

Remember, Big White Wall, Elefriends and Nightline are all resources available to you which can be accessed from home.

LUU Execs have also set up a Covid-19 Facebook support group you can join.

Being good neighbours

We know the majority of you are good neighbours and do all you can to help others who live nearby. With the UK government telling people to stay at home, please be particularly mindful of your neighbours – many of them will be experiencing the same mixed feelings as you, and some of them may also be vulnerable. Please consider this when carrying out activities at home, as noise nuisance has a significant impact on the health and wellbeing of those affected. 

Stay active, stay positive

Your day can easily be taken over by Netflix, other streaming services or social media. Be mindful of this, and try to keep a routine. Keep similar wake and sleep patterns and plan your days with time for work and pleasure; this will help you to stay positive, calm and productive. 

Exposure to sunlight and fresh air is essential for wellbeing; if you can, take some time outside (while following government guidance), or sit by an open window. 

Continue to take any medication you are on – remember you can order repeat prescriptions by telephone and can usually ask for delivery, or someone you trust to collect it for you.

LUU's Health and Wellbeing Ambassadors are also sending out a regular ‘dose of happiness’ which you can sign up for. You may also want to have a read of helpful articles from students about dealing with the situation. 

Keeping moving

Even if it is just little and often, staying active will really help to boost your mood. Our Sports and Physical Activity service has launched a new fitness and wellbeing hub: ‘your home, your move’. Two fitness videos have been added so far, and more content (including posts about sleep, nutrition, fitness and routine) on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, every week.

Join online

There’s lots of great online activities you can join. Check out your favourite social media sites for yoga and fitness routines, cook-alongs, sing-alongs and dance-alongs, or try out a 10 minute NHS workout.

Our social media team has also put together this great blog on using technology to stay social.

Keep learning

Learning new skills and things can help boost your self-confidence and raise self-esteem, so this is a great time to think about what you can give a go for the first time. Take time to be creative (maybe you can discover new talents or nurture some of those old ones?).  Listen to new Podcasts, or TED Talks that you’ve always wanted to try, or take a look at Pinterest for loads of ideas for things to do around the home and garden.

Take Notice

When we feel really overwhelmed, we can find it hard think, make decisions and know what to do next. We often find it hard to be in the ‘here and now’ – here’s a quick tip (and a little challenge) you can try anywhere to help you reconnect:

Slow your breathing. Take some nice, slow even breaths. Notice: five things you can see, four things you can hear, three things you can touch, two things you can smell, one thing you can taste. Reconnect with the here and now. 

You may also find the following resources helpful: 
Progressive Muscle Relaxation 
Mind Relaxing and Calming Exercises 
PixelThought

Get the support you need

University support

We know that the coronavirus situation is overwhelming for many and that you may need additional support. There is a lot of support being put in place which you can access remotely. If you need help and support with non-academic issues, get in touch your Schools and student support officers.

For those of you who are still with us in Leeds, please regularly check our campus service updates page for information about what’s open. Please note: As of 2pm today (Friday 27 March), all catering outlets on campus, including The Refectory, are now closed until further notice. Please be assured that the small number of students reliant on the University for meals are being catered for.

If you have questions about your accommodation, see the accommodation services FAQs or contact the accommodation services directly. 

Financial support 

We recognise that many of you may have financial concerns due to what’s going on around us. The Leeds Hardship Fund is available to those of you who may need financial support. We know many students are away from campus at the moment, and so you can request a form by emailing the Funding team. Please include your name and student ID in the email. If you are eligible to apply, you will be sent an application form by email, along with further instructions. If your financial hardship relates directly to changed circumstances resulting from the COVID-19 situation please state this clearly within the email. Details about your situation can then be provided as part of the application supporting statement. Please email the team directly if you have any questions: funding@leeds.ac.uk.

Additional financial support may be available to you through the Government and LUU. 

Other support services

Lots of you may have mixed feeling about everything that’s going on in the world. Please take time to talk through these with your friends, family, classmates or flatmates. Sometimes it’s easier to share these feelings with someone who doesn’t know you personally. We’ve provided a list of services you can contact and speak to anonymously.