---
title: Email to all postgraduate researchers sent 18 March
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-18
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
Dear postgraduate researcher (PGR) 
 
This is an update to the email that I sent out on 16th March to all PGRs.  Since that email was sent, the situation has changed, and this provides new information that you should follow.  Let me reassure you from the start that your health and well-being are our priority and that we will be as flexible as possible in order to support you.  
 
We have been following NHS and Public Health England advice and guidance in recent weeks, and we will continue to do so.  For the latest general advice, please check the latest news on our dedicated coronavirus website. 
 
You will probably have seen that from 18:00 today (Wednesday 18th March) all physical lectures and classes for taught UG and PGT programmes are cancelled, with most teaching being delivered online.  Other major events, such as conferences, are being cancelled or postponed, and by 18:00 on Friday 20th March we will be moving to a situation where only essential services and activities will be delivered on campus, observing the principle of 'social distancing', with as many staff as possible working from home.  Research labs, libraries and other facilities will not normally be open to staff or PGRs.
 
In this context, we are confident that we can continue to support our PGR community remotely, although we would ask you to be patient as we adjust to this new reality.  It would be useful if queries could be directed to Graduate Schools in the first instance, as outlined below.   
 
Supervision meetings
 
PGRs are asked to work remotely wherever possible and not to try to access labs or other research facilities.  Please discuss with your supervisor how you can continue to progress your research remotely.  If possible, regular supervision meetings should continue, and can be arranged via skype/telephone as per existing policies, with meeting notes recorded in GRAD.  
 
If it is not possible to continue to progress your research remotely, please contact your Graduate School Office, who will be able to advise you on the options available to you, including authorised absence and suspension of studies if required.  See below for information regarding extensions.
 
In some very exceptional cases, essential research activity may be allowed to continue.  If, after consultation with your supervisor, you feel that this might apply to your work, there is an agreed procedure to apply for an exception to be made, which you should follow.  A case will need to be made by your supervisor to your Faculty's Executive Dean and signed off by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation.  
 
Progress monitoring and examinations
 
As far as possible, we expect all progress monitoring (first formal progress review, transfer, annual progress review) to continue as normal.  However, please contact your Graduate School if you feel that your progress has been affected by the current situation, and they will be able to advise you on how we can best support you (for example, via an extension).  It has been agreed that our usual regulations about the need for progress reviews to take place via face-to-face meetings can be relaxed under the current circumstances.  Your Graduate School can advise as to what this might mean in your case.
 
For transfer and final examination vivas, arrangements are being made for it to be possible for you to complete these via video streaming, where appropriate. The policy on video stream is available to download. If you prefer to postpone and rearrange your viva, we will be happy to support this.  In addition, we are moving to online thesis submission only.  Theses should be submitted via GRAD as a PDF; bound hard copies are not required.  The date of submission will be recorded as the date that the PDF was uploaded to GRAD.  Once again, your Graduate School can provide advice and support on all these matters. 
 
If the current situation means that you are not going to be able to meet the deadlines for transfer submission or final thesis submission, please apply for an extension.  All such requests will be considered sympathetically.  Graduate Schools can advise, once again.
 
International PGRs on Tier IV visas
 
If you choose to return home, rather than remaining in the UK, we will of course continue to support you as well as we can. Although we have stopped international travel on University business on the basis that such travel might contribute to the spread of infection, travel home does of course have to be a personal decision.
 
If you wish to return home, but will be continuing to progress your research and complete supervision meetings, you will need to complete a ‘Change of Study Location’ workflow in GRAD.  This is so that the Graduate School knows your whereabouts and can support you during this period.  Supervision meetings can continue as outlined above, and should be recorded in GRAD.
 
If you choose to return home but will be unable to progress your research remotely and supervision meetings cannot continue, or if you require a break from your studies for personal reasons, you can take an authorised absence or a suspension of studies, both of which can be applied for using GRAD.  Your Graduate School can advise as to which is most appropriate in your particular circumstances.
 
PGRs who teach
 
If you are a PGR who teaches or demonstrates, please contact the module leader for the modules on which you teach for advice in the first instance.  FAQs are being prepared and will be available on the coronavirus website. We ask for your patience while the website is updated.  PGRs will be paid for classes which they are scheduled to teach but which do not now take place.
 
If you become unwell…
 
Should you become unwell, please follow the advice on the university’s website regarding self-isolation.  You can also find sources of support there.  If you are unwell, we do not expect you to continue to progress your research or continue with supervision meetings.  Please complete the ‘Authorised Absence’ workflow in GRAD to inform your Graduate School of your absence. 
 
In conclusion
 
We are committed to supporting you to continue with your research degree studies and to ensure that your work is not adversely affected by the current situation.  However, we recognise that for some PGRs it will be necessary for you to either work remotely or take a break from your studies, and there are a number of ways in which we can support you to do this.  Please do get in touch with your Graduate School or with the Doctoral College if there is anything more that you need to know.  Your safety and wellbeing are our priority.
 
Best wishes
 
Claire Honess, 
Dean of Leeds Doctoral College