---
title: "Conronavirus update:New Measures"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-12
link: >-
  https://urgence.umontreal.ca/covid-19-en/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-umontreal
---
Dear Community Member, 

The University administration has been closely following developments with the global coronavirus epidemic for the past several weeks. The management committee is assessing the situation on a daily basis, with the support of the units and our experts in epidemiology, and it is regularly updating our measures to safeguard our community’s health and safety. 

In light of the latest developments and the recommendations made earlier today by Québec Premier François Legault, the University has decided to take the following five actions: 

## **Cancellation of teaching and research activities abroad for students.**

All teaching and research activities organized by the University abroad are cancelled until the beginning of the fall semester, whether or not they are in an area currently considered to be a high-risk zone. The University is in regular contact with students who are abroad for study and is assessing their return on a case-by-case basis. 

## **Travel restrictions**.

As of March 12 and until the start of the fall semester, the University is cancelling all travel by administrative and support staff outside Québec for professional reasons. In addition, the University strongly advises teaching staff not to travel to the rest of Canada or abroad. We also recommend that members of the university community avoid all travel outside the country for personal reasons. Members of the community should be aware that if they do not follow these guidelines, they may not be covered by UdeM’s medical and cancellation insurance plans. 

## **Self-isolation after travel.**

As Premier Legault announced, we are asking all staff and students who have returned from a trip outside Canada since March 12 to self-isolate for 14 days as a precaution, regardless of what country they visited. Employees returning from travel abroad should notify their manager as soon as possible. Students who need to self-isolate are asked to fill out the voluntary declaration form (GEN_COVID_19) available at the [Centre étudiant](https://identification.umontreal.ca/cas/login.ashx?service=https%3a%2f%2facademique-dmz.synchro.umontreal.ca%2fpsp%2facprpr9%2f%3fcmd%3dlogin%26languageCd%3dCFR%26userid%3dCAS%26pwd%3dz&methode=POST&cmd=login) under the “Formulaires” tab. 

## **Suspension or postponement of classes with 250 students or more.**

In accordance with the government's recommendation, the University is suspending all classes and other in-person teaching activities involving more than 250 students. Affected teaching staff and students will receive instructions shortly. Among other things, the various measures circulated to all teaching staff earlier this week may be implemented. 

## **Cancellation or postponement of major special events.**

All special events involving large gatherings will be cancelled or postponed. This measure is effective as of March 13 and covers all activities other than teaching or research conducted to meet the requirements for a degree or for the purposes of a research project. The cancelled activities include, but are not limited to, graduation ceremonies, conferences, cultural activities, sports events, student celebrations, the “Les Belles Soirées” lecture series, galas, ceremonial events, etc. The purpose is to limit gatherings as much as possible, since they are vectors of virus transmission. Outside organizations planning an activity at one of our campuses will be informed that the University will advise members of the UdeM community not to attend. 

These measures will remain in effect until the situation returns to normal. The University is leaving it to the discretion of the units to decide whether working meetings involving a significant number of people (e.g., faculty councils) should be held as planned, postponed or conducted remotely using technological means.  

The University administration continues to monitor the situation closely. Other measures may be announced in the coming days. We will keep you informed of any decisions and actions. 

We encourage you to consult the [Urgence UdeM](https://urgence.umontreal.ca/) site, particularly our regularly updated [FAQ](/faq/) (fr). You can also write to us at [urgence@umontreal.ca](mailto:urgence@umontreal.ca) if you have any questions or concerns. 

Guy Breton  
Rector
