---
title: "End of term: What are your options?"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-06
link: >-
  https://urgence.umontreal.ca/covid-19-en/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-umontreal
---
 

## End of term: What are your options?

**Updated: 2020-04-06**

 

Dear Student,

As a result of the current health crisis, you are facing situations that could affect the course of your studies. The University administration is acutely aware of the problems and has put in place accommodations to help you complete the Winter semester.

We are writing today to give you more details about these measures and to answer questions you have asked about some of them, such as missing an evaluation, dropping courses, and pass/fail grading.

Please read the following carefully. This message outlines the options available to you for the Winter semester and could affect the course of your studies in subsequent terms.

## Absence from an evaluation: details

If you were unable or anticipate being unable to take an evaluation, you should fill out the **CHE_Absence_évaluation** form, available on the Centre étudiant, as soon as possible.

You will not have to produce any document, such as a doctor’s note, to justify your absence. If none of the reasons listed on the form applies to your situation, you can explain the reasons for your absence in the space provided. If your reason is accepted, you will be entitled to the same accommodation. You will receive an answer, positive or negative, as soon as possible.

If you miss an evaluation for a valid reason, you will have to make it up in some way: a deferred exam, a written assignment, etc. Your teacher will determine the appropriate course of action, in consultation with the program director.

Regardless of the type of make-up evaluation that is required, a REM (deferral) will be entered on your transcript for the course until the evaluation is completed. A deferred exam must be taken by the end of the following semester, unless an additional delay is approved by the Dean of your faculty because of exceptional circumstances.

NOTE: You can register for a course even if you have a REM on your transcript for a prerequisite.

## Extended deadline: details

If you are unable to submit an assignment by the due date, you must notify your program's secretary (TGDE) as soon as possible. You must also complete the **CHE_Absence_évaluation** form available on the Centre étudiant, indicating the reason why you are unable to submit your work. Your faculty will contact you shortly.

The same rules apply to graduate students except for the following special cases: submission of a proposal, submission of a project for evaluation by the ethics committee, submission of a project to the doctoral committee, comprehensive exam, thesis defence. In these cases, if you are absent or late, you must contact your research supervisor and your program director to agree on specific accommodations.

## Inability to complete a course

Some of you may be unable to finish a course and complete the evaluations during the Winter 2020 semester. This would be the case, for example, for students who are currently working long hours in the health and social services system. 

If you are in this situation, contact your program director as soon as possible. They will advise you on the best option (deferred evaluation, pass/fail grading, withdrawal from the course) depending on your circumstances. 

## Choice of pass/fail grading

As [previously announced](/evenement/article/147006/), the University is allowing students to choose pass/fail grading for the majority of courses during the Winter semester. A pass/fail grade has no numerical value and therefore does not count towards your average.

More information about this option:

  * You may request pass/fail grading for the course(s) of your choice, with the exception of excluded courses.
  * Faculties may decide to exclude certain courses from pass/fail grading for various reasons. If your request is for one of these courses, it will not be accepted. You will receive a letter grade for the course.
  * For courses where the final evaluation requires special conditions that cannot be met due to the health crisis, faculties are authorized to change the grading scale to pass/fail for all students enrolled in the course. The official transcript will reflect that decision.
  * Pass/fail grading means the final grade for the course will be a pass or a fail, based on all evaluations in that course.
  * Students who want to opt for pass/fail grading may do so as soon as the grades are posted on the Centre étudiant by filling out the **CHE_choix_barèmeH20** form, which will be available on the Centre étudiant at the **end of April**. The deadline for requesting a pass/fail grade is **June 15, 9:00 a.m.**  



## Dropping a course

The deadline for withdrawal has been extended to April 15 (or the day before the final evaluation) for all courses that were not completed by March 13. To withdraw from a course, you must complete the **INS_Annul_Abandon_cours** form available on the Centre étudiant.

If you drop a course, you will be able to take it again the next time it is offered. In some cases, you will be able to replace it with another course, with the approval of the program director.

 In some programs, course withdrawals are uncommon since they can have a significant impact on the student’s progression and delay graduation. For these programs, withdrawals must be authorized by the appropriate authority.

## Summer term

We remind you that the beginning of the Summer 2020 semester, originally scheduled for May 4, has been postponed to May 18. As in the Winter semester, the courses will be given online or by means that do not require you to be on campus.

Registration for some summer courses is now open. Over the next few days, new courses will be added to the summer calendar and these will also be open for registration.

## Financial aid

The University is working on providing financial aid for students who need additional financial support to complete the Winter semester on account of the health crisis. An announcement will be made next week.

## Educational supports

The University is doing everything it can to support you under the exceptional circumstances in which we all find ourselves. In addition to the relaxation of academic rules described above and steps taken by the [libraries](https://bib.umontreal.ca/coronavirus) to help you study remotely, we offer various [educational and psychological support services](/evenement/article/148269/). Use them; they are there for you.  

## Questions?

If you have any questions, please write to us at [urgence@umontreal.ca](mailto:urgence@umontreal.ca). We encourage you to visit the [Urgence UdeM](https://urgence.umontreal.ca) site regularly. The [FAQ](/faq/) is updated regularly to address the questions you are asking and the new [INFO COVID-19](/info-covid-19/) section sums up what you need to know and what you need to do.

 

[French version here](/evenement/article/150450/)

 

 
