---
title: "Important : Resumption of distance learning activities and other information"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-19
link: >-
  https://urgence.umontreal.ca/covid-19-en/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-umontreal
---
# 

Dear Université de Montréal student: 

We hope that you are well and that you and your loved ones are bearing up under with the stress of this extraordinary situation. Your university is with you under these circumstances, which have no precedent in our society’s recent history. 

We have several important pieces of information to share with you, including the resumption of distance learning activities. Please read these directives carefully. Much of what follows is also of interest to teachers and administrative and support staff. 

**Resumption of teaching activities**

  * All _in-person_ teaching activities remain suspended until further notice. 
  * Starting Saturday, March 21, teaching activities that can be conducted in _distance-learning_ mode – and only those teaching activities – can resume. “Distance learning” refers not only to online classes but to all forms of instruction other than in-person teaching. 
  * The first session after the resumption of instruction must not be devoted, in whole or in part, to an exam, test or submission of an assignment.
  * IMPORTANT: To find out which courses are resuming on March 21, students should check their UdeM email inbox (@umontreal.ca) or Studium. The faculties will inform students through these channels of how classes will resume in distance-learning mode. 
  * STUDIUM: Students will find in Studium information on technological and other tools that could be useful to them in their courses, and on the support that will be available to help them complete their semester remotely.
  * ATTENTION: Course content posted online by teachers, recorded or not, is subject to the same intellectual property rights as content provided in class. Reproducing and disseminating it in any way whatsoever without express authorization is strictly prohibited and could lead to disciplinary action.
  * In this time of severe stress, some students may require psychological support. Students can call the Aspiria 24/7 psychological helpline made available by [ASEQ](http://www.aseq.ca/), the student health insurance plan, at any time. While it is closed for the moment, the UdeM health and psychological consultation centre (CSCP) is following, by e-mail and phone, the people it has already treated. The CSCP team is also working to make online psychological sessions available to students who need help. We will let you know as soon as the service is available. 



**Relaxation of rules concerning studies and admissions**

  *  **Changes to dates and weighting of evaluations**. Due to the special circumstances, teachers may, if necessary, make adjustments to the dates and/or weighting of evaluations for the Winter 2020 semester without consulting students. 
  * **Course withdrawals**. The deadline for dropping courses that had not been completed by March 13 is extended by two weeks. 
  * **Absence at a test**. As of Thursday, March 26, students who need to be absent at an evaluation will have to report it by filling out a new form available on the Centre étudiant. From the time this form is available until the end of the Winter 2020 semester, students will not be required to submit a document attesting to the reason for their absence. The form will be automatically forwarded to the program head for approval. 
  * **Students with disabilities**. Many students with disabilities require accommodations for test-taking. We encourage teachers to be flexible with evaluation procedures for these students. The Disability Support Service can assist you if needed. 
  * **Teacher evaluations**. Student evaluation of teaching is cancelled for the Winter semester.
  *  **Possible extension of the semester**. The end of the Winter 2020 semester is still set at April 30\. Our goal remains to complete as many courses as possible by April 30. However, we are aware that some educational activities, such as placements and lab work, cannot be done remotely and they may therefore be extended. We are giving ourselves until May 22 to complete all courses, and if necessary some could even be extended beyond that date. 
  * **Registration for Fall 2020**. Registration for the Fall 2020 semester on the Centre étudiant will open on April 16 instead of April 2.
  *  **Thesis defence and comprehensive exam**. As previously announced, thesis defences will be conducted remotely until further notice. For this purpose, participants are encouraged to use the [technological tools](https://wiki.umontreal.ca/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=143524413#Listedesservicesparcat%C3%A9gories-multimedia) available to the academic community. The University will be flexible in applying the rules if a thesis defence has to be postponed. The same instructions apply to the oral section of the comprehensive exam. 
  * **Research design and ethics committee**. Assessment of research design and research protocols is subject to the same rules as courses. Activities resume next week. Please contact the secretary (TGDE) for your program to confirm the date. As well, the ethics committees will continue meeting remotely. Submissions must be made as scheduled. 



**General Information**

  * The University remains open and staff are on the job. However, in accordance with government directives, much of the work continues to be done remotely (telework). 
  * Open or closed? For health reasons, many university services for students and the public are closed. To find out which university services are open and which are closed, see the [list](/faq/#liste-des-services). 
  * Starting tomorrow, Friday, March 20, access to the buildings will be restricted. Only the main entrances will be open. 
  * The libraries are closed and will remain closed until further notice. 



Please bear in mind that, in order to slow the spread of the coronavirus, it is very important to keep gatherings to a minimum and to follow the social-distancing guidelines recommended by public health authorities. 

We encourage you to visit the [Urgence UdeM](/faq/) website regularly. Important: our FAQ will be updated later today to reflect the new information in this announcement. 

If you have any questions or concerns, please contact us at [urgence@umontreal.ca](mailto:urgence@umontreal.ca) or call the government’s COVID-19 general information line at 1 877 644 4545.
