---
title: "Statement last updated: Monday 16 March"
subtitle: Update at 21:30 - University response to the Prime Minister’s statement
date: 2020-03-16
link: >-
  https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/news/public/winter-2019/University-of-Birmingham-statement-regarding-coronavirus.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-birmingham.ac
---
We have considered carefully this evening’s update from the Prime Minister. In light of the fact that schools and education settings are remaining open for the time being – will be continuing to implement the plans shared with staff and students this afternoon to move to online teaching, increasing working from home and restricted operations on campus.

We recognise that the situation continues to evolve rapidly and are asking all staff and students to ensure that they have tested their ability to work or study remotely.

As in the [email sent earlier today](/student/coronavirus/all-student-e-mail-160320.aspx "All student e-mail - Monday 16 March, 2020") we understand that many students have already chosen to return home and that other students will also be returning before the end of term.

However, we want to draw attention to some important changes - any students or staff that fall into the following categories – over 70, pregnant, or with a pre-existing health condition - should not come onto campus in light of today’s guidance from the Prime Minister. Staff in these groups should notify their manager if working from home with immediate effect.

Students should follow the correct process to record that they have left the campus using the authorised absence process. **Details of this process are as follows:**

For an international student with a T4 Visa: [the process to notify of absence can be found here](/as/registry/studentrecords/services/authorised-absence-international-students.aspx "Authorised absence for international students").

For a UK/EU Student: [the process to notify of absence can be found here](/student/coronavirus/COVID-19-Exceptional-Leave-Notification-Form.aspx "COVID-19 Exceptional Leave Notification Form").

We will be sending a daily update to you until further notice so please keep checking for this and reading our [FAQs](/student/coronavirus/Coronavirus-FAQs-for-students.aspx "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) FAQs for applicants, students and staff").
