---
title: "Statement last updated: Wednesday 18 March"
subtitle: Update at 15:30 - COVID-19 daily briefing (Students)
date: 2020-03-18
link: >-
  https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/news/public/winter-2019/University-of-Birmingham-statement-regarding-coronavirus.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-birmingham.ac
---
Dear Students,

As per our most recent updates, we are continuing to increase access to online delivery of teaching and learning. You will be aware that from **Monday 23 March** , there will be no face-to-face teaching activity, with any remaining taught content and materials for this term to be delivered through Canvas and other online platforms and channels.

We are aware that many students have already departed campus this week, for home destinations in the UK and around the world. Yesterday, the [Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)](https://www.gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice "Gov.UK - Foreign travel advice") issued an exceptional travel advisory notice confirming that the FCO advise British nationals **“against all but essential international travel”**. This restriction takes place immediately and will remain in place for the next 30 days.

This advice does not affect EU and other international students who are still able to return to your home countries – subject to local travel restrictions and you should check the situation at your destination before travelling.

We are also advising that students who may have an underlying health condition; or are pregnant; or who live with or care for a dependant who is in at risk group (including elderly relatives), should not attend taught sessions or be on campus. Similarly - if you or anyone in your household has a cough or fever you should stay at home and let us know immediately.

From today, we will be planning to issue one update every day until the start of the Easter vacation, reflecting any change in the UK Government guidance. Exceptionally, if there is any significant overnight change we will try and provide an “urgent” update statement. We will also provide reminders and updates about developments at the University:

 **Remember -**   
You should follow your School’s normal processes and deadlines for requesting extensions/deferrals or submitting Extenuating Circumstances. However, we appreciate that you may not be able to provide evidence that you have been advised to self-isolate (for example, if NHS 111 have provided you with advice over the phone). Please do not worry about this – you can submit extension/deferral requests and/or ECs without evidence, as long as you explain clearly why you have been advised to self-isolate.

At all times we are keeping our [frequently asked questions](/student/coronavirus/Coronavirus-FAQs-for-students.aspx "Coronavirus \(COVID-19\) FAQs for applicants, students and staff") pages up to date and we recommend that you check these regularly.

Thank you.
