---
title: UConn to Offer a Free New One-Credit Course on COVID-19
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-03
link: >-
  https://uconn.edu/public-notification/coronavirus/covid-19-academics-and-research/#AR-2020-03-19-a
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-uconn
---
Feeling overwhelmed, confused or unsure how to navigate life in a global pandemic?

**The COVID-19 Pandemic: Impacts on Health, Business and Society** is a new multi-disciplinary course that brings together unique insights from faculty in Allied Health, Public Health, UConn Health, Public Policy, Pathobiology and Veterinary Science, Pharmacy, Nursing, Psychology, Management, and Finance.

Learn from UConn experts the science behind COVID-19, how to recognize stress and adopt coping mechanisms, and gain insight into the business and financial implications of the pandemic.

This one (1) credit UNIV course is free and open to all undergraduate, Ratcliffe Hicks, and PharmD students.  The course begins Monday, April 6 and ends Friday, May 1.

Interested students should complete the online [registration form](https://hclleap-prod2.its.uconn.edu/apps/secure/org/app/1f867cac-cd6f-4932-8db0-b0be3adc42f4/launch/index.html?form=F_Form1) by Tuesday, April 7 to have access to the first module when it becomes available, but registration will be accepted through Friday, April 10 at noon.

This online course will be taught asynchronously. There are no scheduled class meeting times so you can engage with course content when it’s convenient to you within module timeframes: <http://s.uconn.edu/covid19coursereg>

A parallel version of the course will be available to all other groups including graduate students, faculty, and staff starting on Monday April 13. Additional instructions regarding how to register will be available in the coming days.
