---
title: Message to Residential Students at Storrs and Stamford, Student Housing
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-27
link: >-
  https://uconn.edu/public-notification/coronavirus/covid-19-academics-and-research/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-uconn
---
These are uneasy times on our campuses, in our state and throughout our nation as the worldwide coronavirus pandemic forces all of us to confront difficult decisions and unprecedented change.

UConn’s students have risen to the challenge admirably. They have transitioned to online learning and left the residence halls as we comply with the state’s efforts to limit the spread of the virus by restricting crowd sizes, now at a five-person maximum.

For most of our students, this meant the unavoidable postponement of our move-out process, which had been intended for March 30 through April 10. We apologize, and share your disappointment.

If you are among those students, your possessions will remain in your locked room until the university is fully reopened and relevant state directives have been lifted, hopefully later this spring.

However, with circumstances changing quickly, the state might need more space in UConn’s residence halls in coming days or weeks. In those situations, we would need to clear your room, with a professional company packing and storing your belongings until they can be returned.

This is already the case for students in Buckley and Sprague halls, whose items will be packed and stored as the state takes over the space. Rooms also will be packed up in Charter Oak and part of Shippee so remaining students at Buckley and Shippee can be relocated there.

It is also occurring in Stamford, where 900 Washington Blvd. will be turned over to state use and unoccupied rooms will be packed up. Students still living there will be moved to the other two student housing properties nearby, where some rooms might also need to be packed up to accommodate the consolidation.

We are committed to handling your belongings responsibly and respectfully. And while we do not yet know if and when the state might need to use additional UConn residence halls, we will keep you updated as circumstances evolve.  
Again, we are very sorry that you are being inconvenienced by this necessary and unavoidable  
circumstance. Although it benefits the greater good and is critical to the state’s efforts to address  
the pandemic, we understand that it may add to your unease during these unusual times.  
The university looks forward to welcoming you and your fellow Huskies back to our campuses  
as soon as we can, and we wish good health to you and your loved ones.
