---
title: COVID-19 student email 23 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/1qu0dodry6s?email=true&lang=en&a=11&p=4498503
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uwa
---
Dear UWA Students

I hope you are settling back into online tutorials and classes this week and are feeling more confident about your studies. Pleasingly the infection rates from the COVID-19 appear to be very low now, the curve is getting flatter by the day and the conversations are now beginning about what happens in our recovery period. Well done to all of you who have done the right thing to help get all of this right.

In a slight change to this evening’s email I am highlighting the important work our researchers are doing to make important contributions to the COVID-19 response. The UWA Expert Series showcases the depth and skill at our fingertips and shared with our wider community. I think we all understand that University research will be the key to COVID-19 breakthroughs – not only in the form of finding treatments, tests and vaccines, but in research innovation across all disciplines as we learn to live in a post COVID world.



This weekend Australia will remember past and current armed services personnel for the sacrifices they have made for our nation. ANZAC Day 2020 will be like no other – no public dawn services, no marches, no parades, and no two-up at RSL clubs. Instead, we can all commemorate and remember by standing in our homes, driveways or balconies with a candle at 6am on Saturday 25 April. Commemorative services will be streamed to honour our Anzacs and veterans. Lest we forget.

In short:

Semester 2 delivery

Studiosity

Semester 2 delivery

Earlier this week we announced that Semester 2 will start as scheduled on Monday, 27 July 2020. This means you have certainty now about planning your studies. It is also why we are confirming now that Semester 2 will be fully available in online mode, including assessments and exams.

This means that, in the event social distancing restrictions do ease and determinations are made that physical classes can safely recommence on campus, online lectures, interactive digital tutorials and online exams and assessments will still continue to run for remotely located students who cannot get to campus due to travel restrictions.

Studiosity

Getting in early for study for your exams? Don’t forget Studiosity is available 24/7 for study help and writing feedback, via your LMS student login. Studiosity is here to assist with your exam prep and provide you with the confidence to handle your exams, in whatever form they present.

Today marks the start of the holy month of Ramadan for those in our community who are of Muslim faith. It is one of the most significant annual religious events in the world. For many this year Ramadan will be a difficult time for those who are experiencing hardship and other challenges, including social distancing restrictions and being away from families and loved ones. A wide range of support, including Financial Hardship Grants, Counselling and Psychological Services, and Medical Care is also accessible through the Students website.

One of the most significant influencers in my life has been Nelson Mandela. He endured imprisonment, hardship and abuse for decades, only to emerge from jail and lead a divided South Africa to a democracy. He frequently referenced one of John Wooden’s quotes: “Things turn out best for the people who make the best of the way things turn out…” Wise words that I hope encourage you all to keep going.

Take care and enjoy your studies.

Best,

Jane and Bre

Professor Jane den Hollander AO

Vice-Chancellor

Bre Shanahan

President

UWA Student Guild

Vice-Chancellery • M464, Perth WA 6009 Australia