---
title: "20 March: Moving to online study for Semester 1"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-20
link: >-
  https://about.uq.edu.au/covid-19-student-communication
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uq
---
**Date** | **Subject** | **To** | **From**  
---|---|---|---  
  
20 March

| Moving to online study for Semester 1 | 

All students

| 

DVCA  
  
Thank you for your patience this week while we fast-track preparations for online delivery.  As you would be aware, during the week the Australian Government upgraded its travel ban to Level 4 prohibiting all international travel for Australians and banning all foreign nationals from entering Australia due to the coronavirus pandemic.  
  
The Government has also strengthened its health response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including introducing further restrictions to indoor gatherings. Unfortunately, these measures will make it incredibly difficult to continue with many of our face-to-face teaching activities and some aspects of campus life.

This Semester is going to be different for all of us - but we are doing everything we can to make sure you keep progressing with your study and make the most of this challenging situation.

**Teaching activities**

We have made the difficult and complex decision to move all teaching activities online for Semester 1 from Monday 23 March 2020. Please be assured, we want to give you as much certainty as currently possible so that you can continue your studies even if that means adjustment to teaching arrangements and term dates.

  * _**What will go online:**_  All learning experiences - lectures, seminars, tutorials, labs and practicals - will be available online where possible. Some essential knowledge and skills cannot be learnt online, and your programs will be adjusted to ensure you gain these prior to graduation. Student support services will also be available online. Please regularly check your course Blackboard sites and your UQ email for changes.
  * _**Your timetable:**_  Your courses will run as previously scheduled unless advised by your Course Coordinator.
  * _**What this means for assessment**_ : Course Coordinators are reviewing assessment. For courses that are delivered fully online, there will be no requirement to attend campus for assessment in Semester 1. Please check your course Blackboard site for details. Your Electronic Course Profile (ECP) will be revised and your Course Coordinator will let you know when this is available.
  * _**What this means for the academic calendar**_ : With the pause in teaching this week, additional time for teaching and learning activities has been scheduled at the end of the semester.  This will result in a change to examinations and postponing graduation ceremonies. Students who meet their program requirements will still have their degrees conferred after the finalisation of Semester 1. The [University Calendar](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24308) has been updated to reflect the new dates.
  * _**How to get ready**_ :  Our online readiness checklist for students is available [here](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24309).



**Adding courses**

  * Students who may have dropped their courses and deferred or interrupted their studies,  **regardless of their geographical location** , now have an opportunity to reinstate enrolment by midnight [AEST] on Wednesday 25 March 2020.
  * Courses can be added via mySI-net to continue your studies online where available.
  * Study abroad and incoming exchange students may require [additional information](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24310) before making a decision.



If you have trouble accessing your username and password to log into UQ systems, please contact [IT services](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24311).

**Campus activities**

While all teaching will be moved online, our campuses will remain open to facilitate a range of activities that can still occur within the boundaries of the new social distancing and gatherings guidelines.

  * _**What facilities will be open:**_  All buildings will have standard access, retail outlets will remain open, Student Services and the Student Centre will be available.
  * _**Library:**_  All libraries will remain open and offer a wide variety of resources and training to help you continue your study. You can also access training online and our librarians are offering consultations via Zoom.
  * _**On-campus social, health and wellbeing**_ **:**  You can enjoy on-campus [social activities](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24312), access important services such as mental health support and utilise our informal learning spaces to access our high-speed WIFI. The Student Centre, UQ Health, UQ Sport, and the UQ Student Union will all remain open.



All organised activities on campus will be reconfigured to comply with social distancing guidelines. We will be relying on you to play your part in this and please,  **if you need to self-isolate, you must do so**. If you are still unsure as to what self-isolation means and how to put it into practice, please refer to [Government advice](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24313).

**Online student support, wellbeing and social opportunities**

In addition to campus-based activities and support, there are a range of resources for students to access online including:

  * [Virtual social events](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24314)
  * [Virtual volunteering and mentoring](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24315)
  * [Virtual Village](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24316)  
  * [Student advice](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24317)
  * [Employability and careers advice](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24318)
  * [Counselling and Mental Health support](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24319)
  * [Disability support](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24320) 
  * [UQ Health](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~woDDv8S~~j3Grtm~yKRMusoXy77Mv98~z7~Pv_1&2=24321)



**Extraordinary times, extraordinary people**

Our academics and professional staff are doing everything possible to continue to deliver you a world-class education and our researchers are working around the clock to develop a vaccine. It is during these very uncertain times that I am reminded of why I joined UQ in the first place and perhaps why you chose to study with us. We are home to many of the best and brightest minds in the world working on challenges of global significance.

Our multi-award winning teachers whose passion, knowledge and dedication are responsible for ensuring you, the next generation of leaders and pioneers, can succeed in this very uncertain world.

I wish you all the best for your studies this semester and look forward to engaging with you in our new online world.

Joanne  
  
 **Professor Joanne Wright**  
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
