---
title: "24 March: Students considering re-enrolment in Semester 1, 2020"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-24
link: >-
  https://about.uq.edu.au/covid-19-student-communication
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uq
---
**Date** | **Subject** | **To** | **From**  
---|---|---|---  
  
24 March

| Update for students considering re-enrolment in Semester 1, 2020 | International students who deferred / interrupted study | 

DVCA  
  
I hope you are safe and well.  
  
I would like to remind you that Semester 1 learning is now online for all students, even if you are overseas.  
  
If you have previously deferred or interrupted your studies, and would now like to commence or continue your studies with us in Semester 1, you will need to enrol in your courses before 11.59pm (AEST) Wednesday 25 March 2020. Please consider carefully whether you have been engaged with the course learning activities before adding courses.  
  
 **How can I enrol in my courses for Semester 1?**

We have more than 99 per cent of our courses available online. Please follow the steps below to enrol via mySI-net:

  1. Log in to [my.UQ Dashboard](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24395) and select 'mySI-net' from the side menu.
  2. From the mySI-net home page: 
    1. Go to 'Enrolments' > 'Enrolment Summary' > 'Add Course'.
    2. Type in a course code and check details (campus, location, semester).
    3. Go to 'Add Course'.
  3. Repeat these steps to enrol in your other courses.



We understand you may not be able to take on a full-time study load, and you may want to opt for a part-time study load instead. This will not change your student visa status but it may extend the time that it takes to complete your degree. If you do require additional time to complete your studies (beyond your visa expiry), you will need to apply for a new student visa.

There is a very small number of courses that you cannot enrol in via mySI-net.  Contact Student Services [student.services@uq.edu.au](mailto:student.services@uq.edu.au) or +61 (07) 3365 1704 for assistance with these courses.

If you have trouble accessing your username and password to log into UQ systems, please contact [IT services](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24396).

**Can I access online content from China?**

Course content can be accessed via your course Blackboard. For our students in China, UQ has worked with a company based in China to boost your access through the UQ VPN.  Click [here](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24397) to read the steps to install the Chinese VPN to enable you to access the course content on Blackboard.

Our online readiness checklist for students is available [here](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24398).

**Will this online study be recognised by the Chinese Government?**

UQ has obtained confirmation from Chinese Service Centre for Scholarly Exchange (CSCSE) officials that qualifications would be recognized for online studies provided students are currently enrolled at UQ and their studies have been disrupted by COVID-19. Students are advised to maintain records of their communication with UQ to provide to the CSCSE that verifies that they have indeed been impacted by the COVID-19 situation.

**How will this impact assessments, exams and key academic dates?**

The [University Calendar](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24399) has been updated to reflect the new dates.  There will be no requirement to attend campus for assessments or exams in Semester 1.

If you have missed assessments or exams your Course Coordinator will work with you to make up course work and reschedule key activities.

**If I re-enrol in a course, will I still have a chance to drop the course or interrupt my study before Census Date of 31 March 2020?**

If you re-enrol in your courses before 11.59pm on Wednesday 25th March, you will have 6 days to try your course online.  You are able to drop your courses without financial penalty until 31 March.  The last date for withdrawal without academic penalty will be two days after the end of the exam period however it is important to note fees will be payable for courses accessed beyond 31 March.

**When will the fees be due?**

Fees are due to be paid by 31 March.  If this causes you financial difficulty, please contact the Fees office who will advise you further - [fees@uq.edu.au](mailto:fees@uq.edu.au).

**After I enrol in the course, what should I do?**

You should be able to see your enrolment instantly but if you have any difficulties, please get in touch with Student Services who will work to resolve your issue. The lecture timetable will be available immediately and the Faculty or School will be in touch with you to advise you of your other timetabled activities, including group work where applicable.  Allocations can been viewed via My Timetable on [my.UQ.](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wrCDv8S~xb~Gv9m~yJTJv8o~y77Mv~w~z7~Pv85&2=24404)

**Will there be an opportunity to take courses later in the year?**

The situation with COVID-19 is changing rapidly and it is not possible to give absolute certainty on the academic calendar for 2020.  At this stage, we believe that Semester 2 will not commence until August 2020. We will endeavour to keep you updated as the situation changes.

Our Student Services team are working extended hours and aim to respond to students as quickly as possible. If you have any questions or need support, contact the team on [student.services@uq.edu.au](mailto:student.services@uq.edu.au) or +61 (07) 3365 1704.

  
Best wishes,

Joanne  
  
 **Professor Joanne Wright**  
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
