---
title: "25 March: Checking in and a few updates"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-25
link: >-
  https://about.uq.edu.au/covid-19-student-communication
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uq
---
**Date** | **Subject** | **To** | **From**  
---|---|---|---  
  
25 March

| Checking in and a few updates | All students | DVCA  
  
Hope you are well and starting to settle into your new home-study routines. We're just checking in to see how you're doing and to give you an update.

 

Firstly - well done to you all. We've had some great feedback from our teachers who are impressed with the efforts you're making to engage with your studies and adapt to a virtual-campus life. We know this is not easy!

 

**Study online to stay on track**

Now is the time to invest in yourself and your future. Our focus right now and our commitment to you, is to help you keep your studies on track.

 

We know online study is not the same experience as on-campus and as soon as we can get back to normal - we will have a range of offerings and opportunities to help you re-engage with your studies, reconnect with your teachers and peers, and get back to a deeply enriched student experience.

 

This will include delivering those important learning elements not possible in an online environment (pracs, labs etc) and we are altering our courses and programs to ensure you get those skills as soon as possible. UQ is also working with organisations including professional associations to adjust requirements where applicable.

 

**Access to online study**

Transitioning courses online has been a mammoth task and not without its challenges. For those using Zoom, undoubtedly you are aware there have been reliability and access issues since Monday. We understand many universities across Australia have experienced similar problems as we've all become more reliant on Zoom for teaching and learning. We are now working on two fixes to improve the online experience:

  * Our internet service providers are increasing network capacity
  * Zoom is fixing a bug to allow people to join meetings late.



We expect this work to be completed in the next 24 hours. Please hang in there - we understand it is frustrating and thank you for being so patient while we work through these teething/transition issues.

 

For updates on the status of Zoom and answers to frequently asked questins (FAQs) please see the [Virtual Classroom (Zoom) FAQ](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24470). You can also contact [IT Support](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24471).

 

**New government advice and flow on impacts**

The [Government's advice last night](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24472) means life is going to be very different for all of us. From a University perspective, we will continue to deliver courses in our online format for now, but with a specific intent to revert to campus-based learning, fieldwork and placements as soon as we can safely do so.

 

You can still come to campus to access our high-speed Wi-Fi, providing you practise physical distancing. From tomorrow, you can go to [UQLIFE](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24482)and select Campus Spaces to understand what facilities and libraries remain open.

 

Library AskUs face-to-face service points will close, but our staff are ready to provide help and information through chat, online, and phone. The Library will also continue to provide the new student laptop loan service. Read about [temporary changes to our borrowing rules](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24473) and detailed information on the digital UQ Library is available on the [Library website](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24474).

 

From midnight tonight, there will be fewer staff on campus following the Government's request for people to stay at home, and where possible work from home. While this will not impact your studies directly, it will mean fewer frontline staff working on campus, limited retail outlets, and the [UQ Sports Centre](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24475) will have reduced services.

 

You can still access your School or Faculty Office, [Student Services](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24476) and [Student Centre](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24483). We particularly encourage you to get in touch with the Student Services team via [student.services@uq.edu.au](mailto:student.services@uq.edu.au) if you need any support, including counselling, advice or support through isolation.

 

Financially, we realise this is going to be a very tough period, with many losing their jobs especially casual workers - many of whom are students.

 

If you haven't already, please look into your eligibility for:

  * [The Australian Government's COVID support payments](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24477)
  * [UQ's Hardship Fund](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24478)
  * UQ's laptop support program available through the [Library](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24479) \- if you don't have the technology at home to get online



 

**Staying connected**

In the short-term, the Government is likely to continue to implement stricter social distancing measures that will disconnect people from one another and from sources of support, comfort, and wellbeing.

 

Staying focused on your study is one crucial way you can stay connected - to your teachers, friends, peers and broader University community - during this very unprecedented time. It is also an opportunity to make new connections to support you as you get used to a different way of learning and living with new routines and new priorities.

 

In the coming weeks, we will be launching several online community initiatives to build new social connections and to help you to strengthen your own online networks. You can find out more by exploring the information [here](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNS~wqoDv8S~_D3Gjlm~yI3MusoXy77Mv_~~z7~Pv92&2=24480).

 

**Future communication**

We are in the process of planning Semester 2 and considering what adjustments we need to make to accommodate the changes to Semester 1. We hope to be in a position to provide more information about this soon. From next week I will provide you with a weekly update, and of course, your teachers and other School and Faculty staff will continue to communicate with you directly.

 

Stay safe and well.

 

Joanne

  **Professor Joanne Wright**  
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic)
