---
title: Can I take a leave of absence because of the impact that coronavirus is having on my studies and learning opportunities?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-08
link: >-
  https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-sheffield.ac
---
**Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students**

As the University has moved all teaching and assessment online for the remainder of academic year of 2019/20, students will be able to continue their learning and teaching remotely and progress their academic studies without requiring to take longer to complete this year, or to complete their degree programme overall.

However, in light of the current situation and changes to the delivery of teaching and learning opportunities, students may wish to pause their studies, and take a period of leave.

If this is the case, please firstly discuss your options with your academic department to ensure that this is the most appropriate course of action for you. If, after consideration of your options, you feel that you would prefer to take a break from your studies, you can choose to take a leave of absence for a set period, and return next year, for example, at the start of the second semester. The University will be supportive of requests that are made on the basis of coronavirus impacts on learning and study opportunities.

Further information about applying for a [Leave of Absence](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/ssid/change-of-status/leave).

**Postgraduate Research students**

Wherever possible, postgraduate research students should continue to engage with their research degree remotely and should discuss and agree a plan for this with their supervisor.

It is recognised that this may require a change of approach or undertaking parts of your research and/or professional development plan in a different order to that originally envisaged.

If, after consideration of your options and discussion with your supervisor and, where relevant, your sponsor, you would prefer to take a break from your studies, you can apply for a leave of absence from your degree. The process for doing this can be found [here](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/rs/code/loa).

The University will be supportive of requests that are made on the basis of the impact of coronavirus on your ability to engage with your research project. You should be aware that this may have implications for your funding and, where relevant, your visa. 
