---
title: Are my lectures, seminars or research work cancelled?
subtitle: 
date: NaT
link: >-
  https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-sheffield.ac
---
**Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students**

Face-to-face teaching was temporarily suspended from Monday 16 March. This means there are no face-to-face lectures, seminars, tutorials, practicals or field courses for the current and next (third) semester, and all teaching is moving online. This applies to all undergraduate and postgraduate taught learning.

Timetabled face-to-face teaching has been cancelled. This will not impact on your attendance record.

We are making arrangements to teach online and will have materials available for students to access. We anticipate it will be easier to access learning materials online locally and we will continue to keep you updated as this progresses.

**Postgraduate Research students**

Face-to-face Postgraduate Research (PGR) programme supervision is also suspended. Where PGR students can conduct their research programmes remotely, they should continue to do so. Heads of departments are considering how essential programmes can be adapted so that PGR student research can continue to move forward.

In the context of the current pandemic and government advice, qualitative research which requires face-to-face contact with participants must not continue. Alternative approaches to undertaking this kind of research remotely must be considered where possible, for example via telephone or video conferencing.

Please discuss arrangements with your supervisor, including how you will stay in contact for regular supervisory meetings and plan activities for the next three months. PGR students should also check with their sponsor to see if there are any arrangements in place for their studentship if they self-isolate. PGR students have been sent separate communications about working remotely with their research programmes.

We understand some research cannot be undertaken remotely and there may be a small number of postgraduate research students whose role has been deemed business critical.

These decisions will be managed by individual departments and Faculty Directors of Learning and Teaching are cascading guidance to postgraduate research staff and students to advise on the process for this. Postgraduate research students whose role has been deemed business critical will be contacted by their PI or Head of Department.
