---
title: "Updated Thursday 2 April 2020, 10:45am"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-02
link: >-
  https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-sheffield.ac
---
  * In addition to the public holidays over Easter, we will be implementing two additional closure days for all staff on **Thursday 9 April and Tuesday 14 April 2020** as a thank you and recognition of the the remarkable efforts everyone has made in the last few weeks to respond to the situation. Please see the Staff FAQs for more details.
  * The University has introduced a safety net policy for all exams and assessments due to take place. This will recognise the value of marks students have already achieved up to **March 2020** for assessed work. This means that no student who passes the year will receive an average mark or overall degree class lower than their current overall mark or degree class.  
  * The Prime Minister has announced that people **must stay at home** and should only leave their home for one of four reasons: shopping for basic necessities, including food and medicine, which must be as infrequent as possible; one form of exercise a day - alone or with members of your household; any medical need or to provide care for a vulnerable person; and travelling to and from essential work, but only where this absolutely cannot be done from home. **It is absolutely imperative that staff and students adhere to this.**
  * The government has advised that **student travel home within the UK is no longer classed as essential**. Students should remain where they are currently living and follow social distancing rules. For more accommodation information, read our updated [advice for current students](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus/faqs/students).
  * Members of staff who are carrying out **business critical work** that requires them to be on campus - where there is a significant consequence to health, safety and welfare if the work cannot continue - should have been notified and must carry a valid photo ID / UCard with them at all times.
  * All formal **invigilated examinations** will be replaced by online forms of assessment. We are consulting with accrediting bodies to ensure that proposed changes to assessment methods meet the required criteria. Within this process we are prioritising graduating cohorts. More information to follow next week.
  * We are committed to ensuring that all those expecting to graduate this year are given the opportunity to do so. We are postponing **graduation ceremonies** until later in the year.
  * Please stay at home for seven days if you have a high temperature and/or a new continuous cough. Anyone sharing your household will need to also stay at home for 14 days from when you first developed symptoms.
  * The best defence to prevent the spread of coronavirus continues to be good hand hygiene practices and social distancing.


