---
title: A message from the Principal
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-30
link: >-
  https://kingsezine.newsweaver.co.uk/llleefcphy/lir64maxoh0
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-kcl
---
Dear Students and Colleagues,

As we approach the end of term, I want to take this opportunity to once again thank you all for your incredible hard work, patience and understanding as we navigate this new, challenging time. In the weeks ahead, it is important that we all continue to maintain social distancing measures in keeping all our community safe and well.  

The speed at which our students and staff have had to adapt is unprecedented, including moving our educational provision online and moving to working remotely for most of us. This has taken an amazing, collective effort and working together has enabled us to face these challenges as one, strong community.

Our colleagues who support essential services such as looking after our students in halls of residence, maintaining essential university facilities and those involved in critical research into COVID-19 may still need to be on campus. Thank you for your dedication in carrying out these critical duties, essential in keeping our university running during this time of huge change.  

My thoughts are very much with our students who have already travelled home or have plans to do so, and who may be facing a period of quarantine as part of this journey. They are also with those students for whom our halls of residence continue to be home. Please let me assure you that we will continue to care, support and look after you in the weeks ahead.;

Last week’s ClapForOurCarers campaign gave me and all of us a chance to reflect on the outstanding support our students and staff are giving to the NHS at the most critical time in its history. This includes members of the King’s community supporting patient care, clinical academics who have taken on temporary full-time NHS roles and our research and laboratory staff assisting with diagnosis testing and ventilator manufacture in the fight against COVID-19. In addition, our world-leading dental units at Guy’s and St Thomas’ remain open to deal with emergencies, easing the burden as many General Dental Practices across London have closed for direct clinical care. Some clinical staff are also being redeployed across other areas of our partner Trusts. We will be volunteering more support to the NHS through using our other facilities. We cannot thank you all enough for the dedication you are showing in support of our society and those in need.  

Your wellbeing is of paramount importance. For students, I know that changes to assessments and the delay in July graduation ceremonies has been unsettling. We are working on an extensive range of measures to mitigate the impact on you and ensure that no-one is disadvantaged. There will be further communications about this over the next week. Please be assured that we are here to support you through these changes and are exploring all options to hold graduation celebrations at a future date. For staff, please continue to work with your line managers in ensuring the right support for you. 

In addition to the remarkable work you are doing for the university, I know that you are all experiencing significant disruption to your home lives and caring responsibilities. Please be assured of our commitment in supporting you to have the flexibility you need to look after yourself, your children and family. I encourage you to take advantage of the variety of resources that have been developed across the university to support our wellbeing and health.

Our virtual social networks become ever more important during this time in supporting our wellbeing, and I know that many of you are committed to assisting the communities around us. We will keep you updated as to opportunities available through the university and in your area.  

Our daily lives have all been radically changed and this has naturally left us with a feeling of uncertainty. I am so proud of how our community has risen so magnificently to the challenge. I know that as we navigate through the coming period, we will continue to support and care for each other with understanding and patience as we adapt to changes in the way we work, live and learn.  

In this endeavour, our commitment to teaching and learning is as strong as ever.  

The leadership team and I will continue to keep everyone informed on a regular basis. 

My thoughts are with you all. Stay safe and well.

My best wishes to you all,

PROFESSOR EDWARD BYRNE AC
President & Principal