---
title: Graduation Ceremony update
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-25
link: >-
  https://kingsezine.newsweaver.co.uk/llleefcphy/e6svcet8ouf
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-kcl
---
Dear ,

I would like to thank you and all your fellow students for your continued understanding and patience during this global outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19), with all the uncertainly and constant change that this has entailed.

I am writing now to advise you that, after what you can imagine has been a great deal of careful consideration, King's will be unable to deliver the graduation ceremonies currently planned for July. It has been an extremely difficult decision to reach, but we have concluded that the pre-eminent responsibility we bear for the safety of our community of students, staff and visitors cannot be reconciled to these events taking place in the summer.

I appreciate that this will be extremely disappointing news for you, your family and friends. I should like to stress, however, that the degrees which you and other students have worked so hard to achieve will not, of course, themselves be in any way affected. You will still have graduated from, and be a graduate of King's if you complete your degree. Certificates will be sent to you directly at the normal time.

Graduation days are a real highlight in the academic life of the university, and often some of the most special occasions for recognising our amazing students and all that you have achieved. Let me assure you that we fully expect to hold celebratory events again in London in the future, which will be open to all those cohorts of students affected by the present circumstances. King's cannot, of course, predict yet when that will be, but we will keep you informed as soon as the possibilities materialise.

Although July's ceremonies will not take place, we would nevertheless like to explore alternative ways of celebrating your achievements at that time. Again, we will keep you updated about these plans and thank you for your continued patience and understanding while we figure these out.

I am very sorry to be sending you this disappointing news. These unprecedented times have interfered unhappily with the last few months of your programme. Working together, communicating with each other and drawing on collective support will enable us to navigate the challenges ahead as one, strong community. 

For any of you requiring access to our support services, an updated list is available on our website. Please direct any enquiries about graduations to graduation@kcl.ac.uk

With very best wishes,

Christopher Geidt 
 
Lord Geidt 
Chairman of King’s College Council