---
title: "Important: Assessment mitigation information for all levels"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-03
link: >-
  https://kingsezine.newsweaver.co.uk/llleefcphy/19dvgaz30fw
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-kcl
---
Dear Students,

We know the ongoing coronavirus pandemic has been unsettling and we are particularly conscious of the uncertainty this has brought you around exams and completing assessments. We promised last week to write again with more information about how we will seek to ensure that you are not disadvantaged in your assessments and outcomes by the current situation or your individual circumstances.

There is a lot of information here and not every section we have included will be relevant to you specifically, but please do take the time to read through this message carefully.

Support for assessment and enhanced mitigations

Extension to the assessment period

To reinforce what we said in our previous message, in order to allow for greater flexibility, the standard assessment period 2 will now run for nine weeks, from 27 April 2020 to 26 June 2020. Most assessment boards will convene between 20-24 July 2020, and the standard assessment period 3 will run from 24 August to 4 September 2020.

Some faculties may already work to different assessment timetables, and they will communicate with you directly about specific arrangements.

Alterations to assessments

Across faculties, assessment formats have been altered to allow you to complete them remotely. This has included, where appropriate, replacing some unseen, timed exams with open-book exams, or alternative forms of coursework.

Departments have also worked to consolidate and reduce the overall volume of assessments where the learning outcomes for the year or programme can be demonstrated to have been met.

All assessment plans have been tailored to avoid any disadvantage to you arising from your geographical location and time zone. Arrangements for students with Personalised Assessment Arrangements (PAA) have been preserved.

Deferral and interruption of studies

We strongly encourage you, wherever possible, to take assessments in period 2 but understand that there may be a range of good reasons as to why you are not able to do so. You can make a deferral request by submitting a special mitigating circumstances form, no later than 26 April 2020 (the day before the start of the assessment period), or the date advised by your faculty where assessment period timings are different.

Taking the decision to interrupt your studies for a longer period should only be taken after seeking advice and considering the implications carefully. This is a big decision where you would need to consider the consequences for your progression and graduation, career opportunities, and your visa status. If you are considering doing this, please speak to your programme director, personal tutor and/or other advice services to discuss whether ways can be found to enable you to take your assessments in periods 2 or 3.

Please take time the time to read the detailed information on the website carefully before making any decisions to defer or interrupt.

Mitigating circumstances process for COVID-19

We will introduce a streamlined process for considering mitigating circumstances relating to COVID-19. You will be required to provide details of the reason for the request, but you are not required to supply evidence. You should use this process where you have experienced unexpected difficulty in undertaking or completing your assessments due to COVID-19-related issues. Please see the website for more details.

Technology issues and study environments

Our priority is to understand your individual circumstances and find ways to help wherever possible. We may not be able to resolve everything to create appropriate study conditions for you to focus on your assessments, or in accessing the technology and other facilities, but we will do our best to support you wherever we can.

We encourage you to take the time to check that you can access King’s online systems before the date of your assessments. A ‘test’ assessment is being developed for this purpose and will be available soon. Please see the website for guidance on the support and options available.

‘Safety net’ policy

In addition to the above measures to support you in taking your assessments, we will put in place a ‘safety net’ policy to seek to ensure that your overall outcomes are not negatively affected by the impact of our current circumstances.

Please be aware that the application of these principles may need to be adjusted if your programme is regulated by a Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Body (PSRB) or if you are studying on the King’s International Foundation Programme. Your faculties will provide further information for you where this is the case.

Current first years, Undergraduate
For current first years, we have already announced that the grades from this year's assessments will not contribute towards the final degree classification, and only marks obtained from year two onwards will be used in the degree algorithm.

We also indicated that we would ensure that no student’s final outcome would be disadvantaged by this decision. To achieve this, we will put in place a check at the point of considering your final degree outcome, at the end of your programme. Where your weighted cumulative score (C-score) places you within one percentage point of the ‘two percent’ borderline zone between classifications, we will look to see whether your first-year marks would have made a positive difference to your overall outcome.

Where the inclusion of your first-year marks means that your C-score moves up into the borderline zone, the existing ‘two percent’ rule for managing borderline cases will then be followed in order to determine whether the higher classification should be awarded. Where the inclusion of first year marks moves your C-score over the boundary for the higher classification, this is the outcome that will be awarded.

All other years, Undergraduate
Our aim is to make sure that a student’s overall performance for the year is not negatively affected by circumstances associated with the COVID-19 period. In determining your performance for the year, we will calculate an average based on all completed modules and summative grades available for work completed with submission deadlines up to 15 March 2020, where these can be considered sufficient to give a reasonable indication of your prior performance. Where sufficient information is not available from this year, we will seek to use other appropriate information, which may include the previous year’s grades or marks for formative work this year.

This ‘safety net’ average will then be compared with your average for the full year, to ensure that we are picking up any instances in which your outcome for the year may have been negatively affected by poorer-than-average performance in the COVID-19 period. For those modules completed after 15 March 2020, marks may be adjusted to ensure that the average for the year is at least at the level of the ‘safety net’ average. Marks for any failed modules will not be so adjusted and resit marks will continue to be capped.

Students must take all assessments set for them in order for the ‘safety net’ provisions specified above to be applied.

Current Finalists, Undergraduate
At the point of calculating the final degree classification for our current finalists, we will put in place a further check – in addition to the above measures – to make sure that your outcome has not been negatively affected by COVID-19-related circumstances.

If your c-score falls in a borderline zone between classifications, we will follow our existing policy of looking to see whether you have at least 60 credits at level 6 or above in the higher range, and if so award you the higher classification. However, an additional ‘safety net’ provision will be put in place where we will also look at whether we can find those 60 credits at level 5 or above, and, again, award you the higher classification if this is the case.

Postgraduate Taught
Where possible, we will apply the same ‘safety net’ averaging rules as described above (under All other years, undergraduate) for taught elements only. There will be no change to the assessment of dissertations, given the longer time period that is available for their completion.

As above, students must take all assessments set for them for the safety net provisions to be applied.

All students
For all current students, we will carry out additional checks at the point at which your final degree classification is being determined at the end of your programme, to make sure that we are satisfied that there has been no disadvantage to your final outcome from this period.

More technical work will be done over the coming weeks to specify how this policy will be implemented across the faculties, given important differences in assessment systems, and to guide implementation by Assessment Boards in the summer/autumn. Your faculties will make sure that you are kept updated as further information becomes available. For today, however, the important point to convey to you is our commitment to put in place this range of ‘safety nets’ which ensure that no disadvantage is caused to your outcomes.

Postgraduate Taught to Postgraduate Research

Finally, we know that some PGT students may be feeling worried about whether changes to their plans for their dissertations and project work will put at risk your applications for PhD work. I want to reassure you that all COVID-19-related circumstances will be taken into account in the PhD admissions process, and you will not be disadvantaged by not being able to complete your lab work or similar as you intended.

I would like to thank you all again for your patience whilst we have worked through the complexities to ensure the best outcome for all our students at King’s.

Over the last few weeks we have all had to adapt to a very different environment from the one that we are used to and hoped for. I would like to thank you for your input and feedback, which has helped us shape the approach and measures we are putting in place to support you.

Please read the information on the website carefully. If you have any specific concerns relating to your studies, please contact your department.

Best wishes,
PROFESSOR NICOLA PHILLIPS
Vice-President and Vice-Principal (Education)