---
title: Summer 2020 courses to continue remotely
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-02
link: >-
  https://covid19.illinois.edu/massmail-announcements/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-illinois
---
Dear Members of the University Community,

In response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and continued guidance from both local and state health officials, we have made the decision that all Summer 2020 courses will be conducted remotely via alternative delivery mechanisms.

We know that this decision about summer courses may generate additional questions about summer research, programs, travel, housing, events, remote work protocols, etc. We are not ready to make those decisions at this time, but as soon as we are ready, you will be notified.

More details about Summer 2020 courses

Registration for Summer session begins on April 20, 2020. Additional information regarding dates and deadlines may be found here https://registrar.illinois.edu/academic-calendars/summer-2020-academic-calendar/ . The Summer Financial Aid application will be available on the Office of Student Financial Aid website on April 20.

The Office of the Registrar will be contacting departments and academic programs to aid in modifying summer offerings as appropriate. Our priority is to provide as many opportunities as possible for students to continue progression towards their degree. 
Faculty that would like support in preparing their course for remote instruction can contact the Center for Innovation in Teaching and Learning (CITL).

As you know, we have already announced that all Summer 2020 Study Abroad programs will be suspended.

Thank you all for your continued patience and passion for this university as we navigate this unprecedented time together.

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Provost