---
title: Spring 2020 academic standing policy changes
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-28
link: >-
  https://news.fsu.edu/announcements/covid-19/2020/04/28/spring-2020-academic-standing-policy-changes/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-fsu
---
This message to all students has been approved by Dr. Sally McRorie, Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs.

For the Spring 2020 semester, the University’s academic standing policy has been adjusted for all undergraduate, graduate, and non-degree students in the following manner and will be reflected on transcripts once grades post. Academic standing for the Spring semester will be based on your FSU GPA and academic standing after the Fall 2019 semester and the grades you earn Spring 2020. The changes will result in one of two actions, based on what your new FSU cumulative GPA is following the posting of Spring 2020 grades.

Undergraduates & Non-degree Seeking Students without Bachelor’s Degree:

If your FSU Cumulative GPA drops or remains below a 2.0, your academic standing from the prior term will continue during your next term of enrollment so that you are not penalized for the events of this semester. If you were on Warning, you will continue on Warning. If you were on Probation, you will continue on Probation, rather than being Academically Dismissed. If you were on “Academically Dismissed. Reinstated on Probation”, your probation will continue and you will be allowed to enroll in a future term. If your FSU cumulative GPA rises to a 2.0 or better, your academic standing will be updated to reflect this positive change. This means that if you were on Warning, Probation, or Dismissal after your last term of enrollment prior to Spring 2020, you will change to Good Academic Standing.

Graduates & Non-degree Seeking Students with Bachelor’s Degree:

If your FSU Cumulative GPA drops below a 3.0, your academic standing from the prior term will continue so that you are not penalized for the events of this semester. If you were on Probation, you will continue on Probation, rather than being Academically Dismissed. If you were on “Academically Dismissed. Reinstated on Probation”, your probation will continue and you will be allowed to enroll in a future term. If your FSU cumulative GPA rises to a 3.0 or better, your academic standing will be updated to reflect this positive change. This means that if you were on Probation or Dismissal after your last term of enrollment prior to Spring, you will change to Good Academic Standing.

This change to the academic standing policy of the University is in effect for Spring 2020 only. The normal academic standing rules will apply for prior and subsequent semesters. This means that the Summer 2020 semester and beyond will follow the official academic policy of the University as published in the University Bulletins.

Students in the College of Law or pursuing an MD degree need to check with their individual programs for any questions regarding academic standing determinations within their programs.

Note: Students who have special agreements with their academic deans or programs will still be subject to those agreements unless the academic deans choose to make an adjustment.