---
title: Examinations, Assessments, Progression and Awarding
subtitle: How will summer examinations and assessments operate?
date: 2020-03-31
link: >-
  http://www.exeter.ac.uk/coronavirus/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-exeter
---
In light of current circumstances, we have confirmed that all examinations will be replaced by open-book remote examinations or coursework assessments. Invigilation will not be possible. We have provided guidelines to departments on how summer examinations and assessments should be organised, but it is up to individual departments and colleges to decide the exact format, taking into account the nature of the modules and the most appropriate way to assess them. They will take one of three forms:

**1.** An open-book non-invigilated paper that must be completed in a specified 24 hour period in your own time. There will be no fixed duration but the expectation is that the paper will take approximately the same length of time as the original planned examination (including adjustment for ILPs).

**2.** An open-book non-invigilated paper that must be completed in a specified 24 hour period in your own time but with a fixed duration. The duration will be adjusted with respect to relevant ILPs.

**3.** An alternative coursework assessment taken over a number of weeks. The form of coursework will be of a kind with which you are already familiar, and will be designed so as to be manageable given other time pressures, examinations and assessments.

Departments are completing their plans for the summer examinations and assessments this week; these will then be checked for potential IT challenges, particularly in terms of the capacity of our virtual learning environment (ELE). Details of the assessments will be communicated to you from your department/college by the end of the day on Friday 3rd April. We are grateful for your patience while we work through these necessary preparations.
