---
title: Study Abroad
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://www.monash.edu/news/coronavirus-updates
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-monash
---
**Students currently overseas (Australian campuses)**

  * According to the [latest advice](https://www.pm.gov.au/media/update-coronavirus-measures-24-March-2020) from the Australian Government, all Australians are advised to not travel overseas at this time. It is recommended that all Australians currently overseas return home as soon as possible.
  * There will be financial support available for your return to Australia covered by the University’s travel insurance or by the University itself, depending on your specific case.
  * If you require assistance booking a ticket back to Australia or your home country, please contact Fullerton Assist (+61 2 9312 5191, reverse charge). They will amend your booking and pay associated expenses.
  * Some students may need to access accommodation immediately upon their return to fulfil self-isolation requirements. Please advise Monash Abroad directly if you require assistance with interim accommodation support.



 **Temporary accommodation  support **

  * Some students may need to access accommodation immediately upon their return to fulfil self-isolation requirements. Please advise Monash Abroad directly if you require assistance with interim accommodation support.



 **Assistance with your revised semester one, 2020 study plan**

  * If you are discontinuing your overseas program and returning to study at Monash University, please look at the Monash Handbook and choose the units for semester one, 2020 that interest you. Send these units your faculty/ies noting that you are a student called back from overseas study by the University. Faculties have been asked to prioritise these requests.
  * Note, mixed model study - mixing online overseas study with Monash units taught in-person in semester one, 2020 - is possible, subject to specific course requirements. You may only be enrolled in 24 credit points total per semester study period.



 **Overseas study after 31 July 2020**

  * If you have applied to semester two, 2020 exchange, we are monitoring the global situation and will keep you updated about changes as they occur. You will be contacted by Monash Abroad with specific advice to plan for future overseas study. We don't recommend:
    * Making travel/flight bookings that are not fully flexible.
    * Making non-refundable payments.
    * Quitting your part-time job.
    * Cancelling any current leases or other accommodation.
    * Paying deposits at your host institution. If you are being asked to make holding deposits for accommodation, please liaise with the coordinator at your host institution to discuss alternative options.
  * Future short-term programs (study tours, Prato, global summer/winter programs, WIL) are being considered. Updates will be available on the Monash Abroad Portal.


