---
title: Later start and changes to semester one, 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-08
link: >-
  https://www.monash.edu/news/coronavirus-updates
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-monash
---
  * Effective from Wednesday 25 March, Monash has suspended all on campus education activities and transitioned to online classes. The University will continue to deliver in this way for the remainder of semester one. It is likely that semester two will begin online, if COVID-19 related travel and movement restrictions continue.
  * Attendance at lectures face-to-face is no longer permitted - they will only be available via livestream and as recording post lectures. Tutorials, workshops and seminars will continue in online mode. As previously advised, all studios, laboratories and practicals that require in-class activity have been rescheduled until later in the year.
  * For courses that include placements, adjustments will be made to the teaching weeks to accommodate this aspect of learning.
  * Where units have labs, practicals and/or studio activities, these will be conducted later in the year, commencing in November. All other activities will be delivered across the same number of weeks or same duration as our normal semester one schedule.
  * A further change has been made to **SWOT VAC** , which will now commence on **15 June for a full week** (rather than 3 days). This is in recognition of the need to support the health and wellbeing of students.
  * Monash will support every student through this period by enabling them to continue their studies and graduate as close to when they had intended as possible.



 **Semester one key dates**

  * Friday 27 March - Week two learning activities completed
  * Monday 30 March - Week three commences
  * Monday 13 April - Mid-semester break commences
  * Tuesday 14 April - New census date (previously 31 March)
  * Monday 15 June - SWOT VAC commences (back to five full days)
  * Monday 22 June - Semester one remote exams commence (until 10 July).



 **Semester two key dates**

Date changes have also been made for semester two to enable the full 12-week teaching and learning load is maintained:

  * Monday 3 August - Week one commences (previously Monday 27 July)
  * Monday 28 September - Mid-semester break commences (end of week eight)
  * Friday 30 October - Semester two teaching period ends
  * Monday 21 December - End of year break



From 30 November 2020 to 18 January 2021 - new **six week intensive study period** for laboratories, practical classes and studios - to be held after the semester two exam period.
