---
title: Important Information for Securing Zoom 
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-06
link: >-
  https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-stevens
---
**To:** All Students, Faculty, and Staff  
 **From:** Michael Parente, Interim Vice President for Information Technology  
Michael Scalero, Director of Learning Technology  
 **Date:**   April 6, 2020   
 **Subject:**   Important Information for Securing Zoom 

As previously announced last week, several security concerns have arisen with Zoom. Many of these have since been patched, but others remain due to the way Zoom works and since the remaining issues are not necessarily technical in nature.

If you use Zoom for anything, whether it be teaching, learning, or meetings, it is important that you read this message and follow the recommendations and instructions below to ensure you are protected against any malicious activity.

  * **Ensure your Zoom desktop software or mobile app is updated to the latest version.  **  
 _ **You must ensure this is done ASAP before your next Zoom meeting!**_  
Follow these steps depending on the platform you use: 
    * If you are using Windows, sign in to the Zoom application, select your user badge in the top-right corner of the Zoom window (with your initials), and select “Check for Updates”. You should see the message “You are up to date”. If this is not the case, follow the on-screen instructions to update your Zoom software to the latest version.
    * If you are using Mac, you can use the same steps as described above, or instead, select “zoom.us” at the top-left corner of the screen, and select “Check for Updates…”. You should see the message “You are up to date”. If this is not the case, follow the on-screen instructions to update your Zoom software to the latest version.
    * If you are using a mobile device, check the app store for your specific device.


  * **Password protect all your Zoom meetings.**  
This means that only people with both the meeting ID and password can join your meeting. You should check any previously scheduled or recurring Zoom meetings to ensure you have set a password.
  * **Disable the “Join Before Host” feature.**  
Disabling this feature will give you better control of your meeting by requiring the host to be present and initiate the meeting before any participants can join.
  * **Use the “Waiting Rooms” feature whenever possible.**  
This allows the host to control when a participant joins the meeting. The host can admit attendees one by one or hold all attendees in the waiting room and admit them all at once.
  * **Do not publish your Zoom meeting ID on external sites.**  
Avoid posting the Zoom meeting ID or invite link on public websites when at all possible. If you need to have the Zoom session accessible from a link on the internet, put the meeting URL as a hyperlink inside the message text. While this doesn’t necessarily increase security, it makes it more difficult for unwanted audiences to find out the meeting information.
  * **Use caution when opening any links in the Zoom chat window.**  
Similar to a phishing attack, opening any malicious link in the Zoom chat window can allow someone to gain access to user credentials though the actions of unsuspecting meeting participants. Only the host should post links if necessary and should specifically notify the meeting participants when doing so. While this security vulnerability has now been patched, attendees with Zoom clients that haven't been updated can potentially still introduce the issue.



We have created the [Best Practices for Securing Zoom Meetings](https://sit.teamdynamix.com/TDClient/1865/Portal/KB/ArticleDet?ID=103510) page which provides more information on how to perform these steps as well as other recommendations on how to keep your Zoom meetings safe and secure. General information and how-to guides can be found in the [Zoom Knowledge Base articles](https://sit.teamdynamix.com/TDClient/1865/Portal/KB/?CategoryID=13024).

We are also hosting a "Best Practices in Securing your Zoom Sessions" training on Thursday, April 9th, from 12:00 p.m. – 1:00 p.m. You can sign up for this training as well as other previously announced Zoom trainings on the [registration page](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeITYCHSvAXysR1Qb6RnSJeqdZf9OvT8P-KdP-bjQsdZ1EIwQ/viewform).

Finally, Zoom has pledged to address all concerns as they relate to the security and privacy of their product. We will be closely monitoring their progress and will take appropriate actions if the need arises. We will also keep the Stevens community informed of any critical developments as well as additional recommendations as they become available.

If you need to speak to someone regarding any questions or concerns you have, please ensure you use the remote support hotline that has been established to contact User Support Services at 201-380-6599. This hotline will be available throughout the remainder of the current campus closure.
