---
title: Planning for Fall 2020 Semester
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-29
link: >-
  https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-stevens
---
## Health Advisory & Campus Update

_Updated  April 29, 2020, 9:55 AM_

**To:** The Stevens Community  
 **From:** President Nariman Farvardin  
 **Date:  ** April 29, 2020   
 **Subject:**   Planning for Fall 2020 Semester 

As we near the end of the spring semester, one question I and the leadership team are asked is, “Will Stevens be open in the Fall?”  The answer is an unequivocal, “Yes.”

As we have learned during the Spring 2020 semester, however, fulfilling the core mission of the university—to provide a world-class, technology-based education and conducting pioneering and relevant research—can occur in alternative modes. 

We are optimistic about the possibility of resuming campus life in the fall as we previously knew it:  delivering personalized, classroom instruction along with engaging students in the many out-of-the-classroom activities that comprise the special Stevens experience.  Should it be necessary, we are prepared for alternative scenarios for the fall, including a hybrid of online and classroom instruction or continuing the learning modes we have implemented during the Spring 2020 semester.   

In planning for Fall 2020, Stevens will be guided by directives from the State of New Jersey and health agencies, strengthened by analyses and recommendations of our campus planning team. We are currently conducting a scenario analysis—utilizing the brain power of the best and brightest members of our community and incorporating the counsel of experienced friends and advisors—to prepare the university for the various scenarios that we may encounter in the fall semester.

On behalf of the university community, I pledge to our new and returning students and their families that we will do everything possible to create a safe, healthy, and flexible university and campus environment for Fall 2020 and beyond.  We are committed to delivering a world-class, technology-based education to our talented students, and we look forward to welcoming students, faculty, and staff back to campus when it is safe to do so.

I look forward to providing updates about our plans for the fall in the coming weeks.

* * *
