---
title: Guidance on Refunds of Student Housing and Dining Charges and New Post Office Hours
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-30
link: >-
  https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-stevens
---
**To:** The Stevens Community  
 **From:** Marybeth Murphy, Vice President for Enrollment Management and Student Affairs  
 **Date:  ** March 30, 2020   
 **Subject:  **Guidance on Refunds of Student Housing and Dining Charges and New Post Office Hours 

This communication provides an update on the university’s plans and timeline for issuing refunds of student housing and dining charges, as well as new hours of operation for the campus post office. 

**Refund of Student Housing and Dining Charges**

As you know, due to concerns about the spread of COVID-19 and the need to protect the health and safety of our students and community, Stevens has closed its housing and dining services effective March 27th.  Eligible students who resided in Stevens housing or enrolled in a Stevens dining plan for the Spring 2020 semester will receive a pro-rated refund of their housing and dining charges by the end of April. The refund is for the last seven weeks of the semester ending May 18th. Housing and meal plan costs that are covered by university scholarships, grants, or external scholarship funding will not be refunded. Students will have the option of receiving a refund payment or leaving the credit on their account to be applied to a subsequent semester.

Students with extenuating circumstances who have received an extension of their move-out date will receive a pro-rated refund based on the date of their official checkout.  The small number of students who have asked for and been granted approval to remain in the Stevens housing program through May 18th will receive a pro-rated refund of dining plan charges but will not receive a refund for housing charges.

More detailed instructions on the refund process will be shared shortly with impacted students by the Office of Residential and Dining Services (RDS). Any questions about housing and dining refunds should be directed to [rds@stevens.edu](mailto:rds@stevens.edu).

**Reduction in Hours for the Post Office in Howe Lobby**

In an effort to keep our campus community safe and to further promote social distancing, we will be implementing the following changes to our post office operation.

Beginning on Monday, March 30th, the Campus Post Office window, located in the Howe Center Lobby, will operate on a modified schedule until further notice:

**Days & Hours of Operation for Post Office window:**

  * Monday 9am - 1pm
  * Wednesday 9am - 1pm
  * Friday 9am - 1pm
  * Closed Tuesday & Thursday  



Students remaining in Stevens Housing, may pick up mail and packages at the Post Office during the above-stated hours.  Mail for students no longer living in Stevens Housing (including FedEx, Amazon, and UPS packages) will be returned to the sender beginning April 1st. 

Any Stevens department planning to pick up mail or packages at the Post Office window may do so during these hours.  If mail or package pick-up is needed outside of these hours, please contact the Post Office Supervisor, Summer Gustave at 201-216-5103 or [sgustave@stevens.edu](mailto:sgustave@stevens.edu), in advance to arrange your pick-up time from Monday – Friday between 9 AM and 5 PM. We will schedule a time to have your items ready upon your arrival. The Post Office is continuing to forward mail to staff members that have been appointed by their division Vice President. An e-mail notification, along with a FedEx tracking number, is being sent to those staff members in advance of delivery to their homes.

The receiving dock will continue to operate Monday – Friday from 9am to 3pm for package and bulk deliveries

**Additional Resources and Information**

If you test positive for COVID-19, please immediately contact Stevens Student Health Services at 201-216-5678 or [studenthealthcenter@stevens.edu](mailto:studenthealthcenter@stevens.edu).

For those experiencing anxiety and stress due to the COVID-19 emergency, the N.J. Department of Human Services operates a toll-free “warm line” which is a resource for people seeking mental health service. The warm line is activated during events that impact the mental health of New Jersey residents. The warm line is available 24 hours and has language access: (877) 294-HELP (4357). Note that the “warm line” does not replace 911 and is not used to report emergencies.

The City of Hoboken provides daily updates on COVID-19 and its impact on the city. The situation is dynamic and we recommend that members of our community sign up for Hoboken alerts at <https://local.nixle.com/alert/7903072/?sub_id=2919246>

Please sign up for Stevens Alerts, which is the system Stevens uses to notify our community of time-sensitive, urgent situations.  [Stevens Alerts](https://nam02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=http://member.everbridge.net/index/3091830992273631#/login&data=02%7C01%7Cmmurphy4@stevens.edu%7C3670407b30db4b26216b08d7bbb7a02e%7C8d1a69ec03b54345ae21dad112f5fb4f%7C0%7C0%7C637184269679223204&sdata=JVGdv09zjsR0GdhOVXQTtLCC+p1Gz+aTuyxbaue8pEc=&reserved=0) is used only to transmit urgent and emergency notifications, not routine campus announcements.

[U.S. State Department  
](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/china-travel-advisory.html)[Center for Disease Control (CDC)  
](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/index.html)[State of New Jersey](https://www.nj.gov/health/cd/topics/ncov.shtml) at <https://covid19.nj.gov/>

NJ Prepares for Potential Coronavirus Cases 24-hour public hotline: 800-222-1222 

As you know, COVID-19 continues to spread in our area.  The Stevens Emergency Management Team (EMT) continues to monitor this situation and is committed to providing our community with the best information we have and supporting our students, faculty and staff members at this challenging time. We will continue to provide the most up to date information and past advisories and emails on the Stevens [COVID-19 website](https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information). 

Thank you for your patience and attention to these important matters.  Please stay safe.
