---
title: 意大利签证中心关于中国签证业务的通知-持续更新（4月9日）
date: 2020-04-09
link: >-
  https://www.vfsglobal.cn/italy/china/Beijing/important-information.html
countryCode: it
status: published
---
* Information for Applicants planning to visit Visa Application Centre in Jinan Starting 30 March 2020, Jinan Italy Visa Application Centre will be relocated at 8F, Qianfoshan Building (Foreign Visa Centre Jinan), No.15-1 Wenhua West Road, Lixia District, Jinan, Shandong, China. The previous address will no longer be valid *  Increased fees for visa applications  Please note: As of 02 February 2020 the Schengen visa fee per person (Short Stay Visa) will increase from 60 to 80 euros or the equivalent amount in your local currency. For children between 6-12 years old the visa fee will increase to 40 euros or equivalent. * Temporary closure of Italy Visa Application Centres under Beijing Jurisdiction Information for customers planning to visit our Italy Visa Application Centres under Beijing jurisdiction In light of the current Coronavirus alert, please note that the Italy Visa Application Centres in Beijing/Xi’an/ Shenyang/Jinan under Beijing jurisdiction will remain closed. Regarding the re-opening of the centres, please refer to this page for further update. Thank you for your understanding! * Wuhan Visa Application Centre closure from 23 January 2020 - Information for customers planning to visit our Wuhan Visa Application Centre Customers are advised that the Italy Visa Application Centre in Wuhan have been closed since 23 January 2020, on account of official notice from the Pneumonia Epidemic Control Headquarters of Wuhan to limit inflow and outflow of people and reduce the spread of the virus. Customers who come to collect their passports on 23 January 2020 will need to come when the VAC reopens. The reopening will be scheduled for after Chinese New Year, and will be announced separately according to the official notice from the Pneumonia Epidemic Control Headquarters of Wuhan. Please contact [info.italychina@vfshelpline.com](mailto:info.italychina@vfshelpline.com) for any inquiry. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your cooperation. * Beware of fraudulent job offers. For more details – [click here](disclaimer.html#1)
