---
title: 挪威签证中心关于中国签证业务的通知-持续更新（4月9日）
date: 2020-04-09
link: >-
  https://www.vfsglobal.cn/Norway/China/Beijing/important_information.html
countryCode: no
status: published
---
* From 06 April 2020, Norway Visa Application Centres in Beijing/Shenyang/Chengdu/Chongqing/Kunming/Changsha will open on every Tuesday and Thursday, from 09:00 hrs to 12:00 hrs. * Restrictions on entry into Norway The Norwegian Government has implemented extensive restrictions on entry into Norway due to the spread of COVID-19. As a result, foreigners who do not hold a valid residence permit in Norway will be rejected at the border and refused entry into Norway. For the time being, visas for visitors to Norway will not be granted. For more information on the entry restrictions to Norway, please visit: * [Press release from The Norwegian Government: Stricter border controls (15.03.20)](https://www.regjeringen.no/en/aktuelt/stricter-border-controls-being-introduced/id2693624/) * [The Norwegian Directorate of Immigration: Corona information page](https://www.udi.no/en/important-messages/about-the-corona-situation/) * [Norway airports and air traffic information from Avinor](https://avinor.no/en/information-in-connection-with-the-coronavirus-covid-19/) * Temporary closure of VFS Visa Application Centres for Norway Due to the extensive restrictions on entry into Norway, it will no longer be possible to submit applications for Schengen visas to Norway at any of VFS visa application centres. The application centres will still be open for submissions of applications for residence permits to Norway. For any enquiries, please contact VFS Call centre. * Information for customers planning to visit our Norway Visa Application Centres under Beijing jurisdiction The re-opening of Xi’an/Wuhan centres will be subject to further notifications from central, provincial and city authorities. Please contact us by e-mail for any enquires. We apologise for the inconvenience and appreciate your understanding and kind co-operation. Please return to this page for further updates. Applicants who have a great urgency to travel must contact embassy on [bejvisa@mfa.no](mailto:bejvisa@mfa.no). * Gentle reminder: The Visa Application Centre buildings management will follow local authorities’ special regulations on whether applicants from other cities can be allowed to enter the building. Please contact the respective Visa Application Centre through helpline or email in advance to know more about local regulations, in order to avoid any inconvenience caused during your application submission. Thank you for your co-operation. * Notice As a precautionary measure and in order to avoid the spread of the novel Coronavirus, all applicants visiting the Visa Application Center are required to wear mask and have their body temperature checked at the entrance and fill in relevant information. Those who don’t wear mask and have fever will be asked to leave and return another day when their health improve. Applicants with signs and symptoms of novel Coronavirus (e.g. fever, cough and difficulty breathing) should seek medical advice as early as possible from the local Health Authorities. Your cooperation during this time is highly appreciated.* Increased fees for visa applications Please note: As of 02 February 2020 the Schengen visa fee per person (Short Stay Visa) will increase from 60 to 80 euros or the equivalent amount in your local currency. For children between 6-12 years old the visa fee will increase to 40 euros or equivalent. * Wuhan Visa Application Centre closure from 23 January 2020 - Information for customers planning to visit our Wuhan Visa Application Centre Customers are advised that the Norway Visa Application Centre in Wuhan have been closed since 23 January 2020, on account of official notice from the Pneumonia Epidemic Control Headquarters of Wuhan to limit inflow and outflow of people and reduce the spread of the virus. Customers who come to collect their passports on 23 January will need to come when the VAC reopens. The reopening will be scheduled for after Chinese New Year, and will be announced separately according to the official notice from the Pneumonia Epidemic Control Headquarters of Wuhan. Please contact [infojvac.chinawuhan@vfshelpline.com](mailto:infojvac.chinawuhan@vfshelpline.com) for any inquiry. We apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your cooperation. * Mongolian Nationals resident in Mongolia should apply at the Norway Visa Application Centre in Ulan Bator. Please[ click here](https://www.vfsglobal.com/norway/mongolia/index.html) for more information. * Beware of fraudulent job offers. For more details – [click here](disclaimer_and_privacy_policy.html#disc3)
