---
title: Coronavirus Update - Online Assessment
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-27
link: >-
  https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/coronavirus/communications/communications-archive.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-nottingham.ac
---
Dear students,

In the Vice-Chancellor’s message to you on Monday 23 March, Professor West reassured students that the University will support you in progressing to your next year of study, or that you will be awarded your degree in the summer. We have already moved to full online or virtual delivery, ensuring modules continue to be taught – albeit remotely.

Online assessment

The University has temporarily adapted its usual central processes so that assessment can be completed remotely, supported by a new set of COVID-19 Exceptional Regulations. How this affects you personally will depend on your area of study and – like methods of online teaching – will vary from module to module. Your Schools and Faculties are currently working on how they will assess students’ work, and will be in touch with you directly with more detail on this.

All tutors, regardless of Faculty, are working to the same principles while developing new methods of assessment.

We want you to succeed
You will not be tested on areas that can’t be taught under the current conditions
We will stagger assessment over a longer period than usual, extending until Friday 12 June
Your assessment load will not be increased
We will prioritise your wellbeing
We will ensure that you meet the learning outcomes of your programme, and that you will meet the requirements of affiliated professional bodies

How will this work?

As we said, we are still working through the detail of how this will work in every case. However, the following general rules will apply to many of you. These general rules cover University of Nottingham UK students, regardless of current location. Your School will let you know if you are an exception to these general rules when they contact you about your specific assessment.

In modules where 40% of your assessment has been completed, or is already in progress, the marks you receive for those assessments will be your final module mark. Schools will be in touch to confirm if and how this ‘part for whole’ approach applies to you.

The regulations allow a flexible approach to the setting of substitute assessment. This could include coursework, open book exams, recorded presentations or other methods. In a small number of cases, Schools will use ROGO for assessments via remote access. You will be informed directly if this affects you.

There will be a further assessment period before the start of the next academic year. This will allow students who are sitting assessments for the first time, or doing resits, to have an opportunity to progress to the next year, or to graduate.

We have changed our extenuating circumstances policy. This ensures that if a student’s assessment is affected by COVID-19, extenuating circumstances can be applied without the submission of evidence.

Key dates

The key dates of the assessment, progression and awards period are: 

End of Spring Semester assessment period – Monday 18 May to Friday 12 June
Marks, award and transcripts available on Blue Castle – Wednesday 8 July
Progression available on Blue Castle – Wednesday 15 July
Awards confirmed – w/c Monday 20 July
Certificates and diploma supplements dispatched – w/c Monday 27 July

Graduation

As confirmed by the Vice-Chancellor, this year’s finalists will graduate on time and receive their degree certificates through the post. But the University has postponed the summer graduation ceremonies.

The University will reschedule a very special set of ceremonies for our class of 2020. We will confirm the details of these as soon as we are able.

In the next few days you will receive communications from your Schools to outline exactly how assessment will work for you. Contact your School direct if you have any concerns or queries following this.

Thank you for your patience and understanding at this challenging and anxious time. We hope you remain safe and well.

Best wishes,

Professor Sarah O'Hara
Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Student Experience

Cassie Ulrich
Education Officer, University of Nottingham Students' Union

James Pheasey
President, University of Nottingham Students' Union

Professor Sarah Speight
Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor for Teaching and Learning

Professor Jonathan Tallant
Chair, Quality and Standards Committee