---
title: An update on online assessment
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/coronavirus/communications/communications-archive.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-nottingham.ac
---
Dear students, 

As we near the University’s Easter closure we thought it would be useful to reiterate some of the information we have already provided you with and to update you on plans for online assessment - including exams, coursework, dissertations - for the summer term. Over recent weeks we have been working through the various mitigations and regulatory changes required to ensure that no student is academically disadvantaged due to the coronavirus pandemic, while at the same time ensuring the integrity of University of Nottingham degrees. 

You are receiving this email as you are affected by the new exceptional regulations we have put in place in response to the coronavirus pandemic as: an undergraduate finalist; an undergraduate student progressing to their next year of study; an integrated masters student or as a taught postgraduate student. 

No academic disadvantage 

Further to communications sent out to students last week, we want to clarify what is meant by ‘no academic disadvantage’. The 'no academic disadvantage' approach we are developing will impact students at different levels in different ways. However, it will apply to all taught students at all levels across their programmes and for all assessments impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, unless a Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Body requires us to do otherwise. 

The University is moving assessment online for the summer period. Your final or year-end marks will not be negatively affected by your remaining assessment, provided you pass your end-of-year assessments. 

If you are a final-year student graduating this year, and you pass your remaining modules, your degree classification will be awarded either on the basis of your work to date, or improved if you perform well in your final assessments. This also applies to taught postgraduate students on a one-year programme and students on an integrated masters degree. 

If you are a student progressing to your next year of study in September, we have introduced special arrangements to ensure no academic disadvantage if you pass your remaining modules – both for your progression to your next year, and for your final classification. These will continue throughout your studies to ensure that your overall marks will not be negatively affected by online teaching and assessment. 

Methods of assessment 

How students are assessed at the end of the summer term will depend on their field of study, and methods of assessment vary from module to module. We are currently working through how the new exceptional regulations will impact these different forms of assessment for all students. This is a complex process which requires careful checking. 

We realise that waiting for confirmation on how you will be assessed may be stressful, but we need to ensure that our processes for determining assessment and final-year marks are robust, so that we do not disadvantage any student over the course of their degree. 

Your School will be in contact with you with more detail about your individual assessment requirements following the Easter break. This runs from Thursday 9 to Wednesday 15 April. 

Our coronavirus webpages have links to useful resources that you can access over the Easter break, including study support, accommodation, access to online learning tools and advice and resources on maintaining good health and mental wellbeing at this anxious time. 

Thank you for your patience and understanding at this challenging time. We hope you remain safe and well. 

Best wishes, 

Professor Sarah O'Hara
Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and Student Experience 

Cassie Ulrich
Education Officer, University of Nottingham Students' Union 

James Pheasey
President, University of Nottingham Students' Union 

Professor Sarah Speight
Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor for Teaching and Learning 

Professor Jonathan Tallant
Chair, Quality and Standards Committee