---
title: Coronavirus - Examinations, Assessments and Graduation
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-23
link: >-
  https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/coronavirus/communications/communications-archive.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-nottingham.ac
---
Dear students,

I am writing as promised to update you on our work to manage examinations, assessments and graduation in light of the Coronavirus pandemic.

I hope this message finds you healthy and that your first experiences of the University’s fully online teaching programme have been positive.

Online teaching and learning at this scale is new for all of us, so if you do require any support or identify areas for improvement, please contact your personal tutor or School, or visit our webpages for advice and information.

Examinations and assessments
Last week I informed you that moving our teaching online means that you will complete this year's studies and progress to the next year or - if you are a finalist - complete your degree on time, so that you can secure employment or begin a postgraduate degree.

The government’s restrictions to tackle the Coronavirus mean that it would be very difficult to host examinations and assessments on campus this summer.

Instead, we are developing online assessment methods so you will know that your learning has been properly examined, your marks have been earned and your hard work is rewarded.

The University has approved a set of Exceptional Regulations that mean we can change the way that we assess your learning, whilst assuring the standard of your degree.

Your Schools are now applying these new regulations to every course and each module and will contact you directly this week to let you know how your assessment will take place.  

Graduation ceremonies
This year’s finalists will graduate on time and receive their degree certificates through the postal system. However, in the light of the government’s restrictions and in line with many universities, the University will postpone – but certainly not cancel – our summer graduation ceremonies.

For this, I am truly sorry, and I know how disappointed many of you will feel at this decision.

Graduation ceremonies are a vital celebration for our finalists and the family and friends who have supported them in their studies and time at University. They are also highly valued by our University staff, those who have taught and supported you during your time at Nottingham.

I do want to stress that finalists who meet the requirements for their degree awards will graduate this summer.  It is only the ceremonial part of graduation that is postponed.

The University is committed to rescheduling a very special set of ceremonies for our class of 2020. We will write to you again with full details of the new ceremonies just as soon as we are able.

We will continue to keep you regularly updated with information through our COVID-19 information webpages, your MyNottingham app and the University’s social media channels.

In the meantime, I wish you every continued success with your online studies and, as always, my best wishes for your health and happiness.

Best wishes, Shearer