---
title: Discover Newsletter - Update from Professor Dame Jessica Corner
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-26
link: >-
  https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/coronavirus/communications/communications-archive.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-nottingham.ac
---
As we continue to navigate these unprecedented times together, I would like update you further on our research and knowledge exchange activity.

This follows the introduction by the UK Government of the most significant restrictions our country has witnessed in order to reduce the spread of the coronavirus.

Prioritising essential research

In line with UK Government advice we have moved towards remote teaching, working and examination in order to protect our staff and students. This has involved suspending research activity on our UK campuses and closing many of our laboratories, libraries, research facilities and workshops. 

However, our mission to deliver world-leading research continues in our homes, as best we can. I know many of you are writing theses, papers, developing grant applications and working on research in other ways remotely. I have found it truly inspiring to see how we have moved to remote working in the space of a single week.

Acting on the call from government, we are considering the areas of science and research that will continue in on-site facilities as they are either critical for tackling coronavirus or for national security, or where pausing would affect the care of animals, preservation of essential biological resources, or storage of hazardous materials.

Research Excellence Framework (REF)

You may well have heard Tuesday's announcement by Research England to postpone the REF submission from 27 November 2020. Please read my blog for further details.

Please follow the link below to read Dame Jessica's full update

Thank you for your continuing dedication in these unprecedented circumstances. I wish you and your loved ones continued good health and wellbeing.