---
title: March 24 updates
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-24
link: >-
  https://www.princeton.edu/content/covid-19-coronavirus-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-princeton
---
As University classes resumed this week via remote teaching, University leadership underscored that Princeton continues to comply with New Jersey Governor Murphy’s state-wide “stay at home” order to slow spread of COVID-19. The Executive Order for all New Jersey residents started at 9 p.m., Saturday, March 21. Specific guidance was issued over the weekend to faculty, staff, undergraduate and graduate students remaining on campus, detailing operational changes necessitated by the new Executive Order.

Princeton University’s compliance with the stay at home order helps keep those who must remain on campus healthy and safe, including students and essential staff, while doing everything we can to do our part for the larger community. As Vice President of Campus Life Rochelle Calhoun said in a [March 21 email](https://emergency.princeton.edu/node/615) to undergraduates approved to remain on campus: “As the number of COVID-19 cases increase nationwide, we will not be immune. Now more than ever, we must work together to mitigate the spread of the disease.”

 **Social distancing** is critical to the success of the University’s efforts to keep the community safe. This includes keeping six feet in between you and other people, at all times, indoors and outdoors. Every single person’s sustained, intentional commitment to social distancing every moment of every day makes a difference. We know this is hard, we know this is disruptive, but it is essential.

As President Christopher L. Eisgruber said in a [March 17 email](https://www.princeton.edu/news/2020/03/17/president-eisgrubers-message-all-princetonians-meeting-unprecedented-challenges) to Princetonians on meeting the unprecedented challenges presented by COVID-19: “I understand how painful these changes are. Like you, we cherish the personal relationships, the collective projects, and the special experiences that this campus facilitates and enables.” 

Whether you are on campus or have left campus, if you are not feeling well, please make sure to get the care you need. If you have been tested for COVID-19, in any jurisdiction, please contact UHS at [communityhealth@princeton.edu](mailto:communityhealth@princeton.edu) — you do not need to wait for results to contact UHS, please do so as soon as possible. This will greatly assist contact tracing efforts, where needed.
