---
# templateKey: news-page
title: FAQs for Currently Enrolled International Degree-Seeking and Exchange Students
subtitle:
date: 2020-03-24
link: >-
  https://isss.unc.edu/2020/03/27/faqs-for-currently-enrolled-international-degree-seeking-and-exchange-students/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-unc
---
# FAQs for Currently Enrolled International Degree-Seeking and Exchange Students
This page was originally posted on March 27, 2020. Last updated on March 27.  Due to the rapidly evolving situation, this information is subject to change. 

We know this is a difficult time for all international students. Per the message sent out on March 17, 2020, the University is reducing operations on campus. ISSS advisors will no longer offer in-person services but will remain available via email and continue to offer advising and process requests remotely via Zoom. Students can contact their International Student Advisor directly based on their program of study or email ISSS at isss@unc.edu.

ISSS will continue to contact students through their UNC email, so students should be sure to monitor their UNC email account.

The sudden changes occurring both locally and abroad can add another dimension of stress and uncertainty. Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) will continue to be available for students who are located within the U.S. via the CAPS 24/7 line at 919-966-3658. CAPS is also available to students who initiated services before leaving the U.S. or who are in need in crisis support; otherwise, students should seek support in their home country.  

If you have any additional questions beyond those addressed below, please do not hesitate to reach out to your International Student Advisor. We are here to support you! 

# Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

## GENERAL:
**As a current international student in F-1 or J-1 immigration status, am I allowed to take my classes online? How does taking all my current courses online affect my immigration status?**

The Student and Exchange Visitor Program (SEVP), the government agency overseeing F-1 students, and the Department of State, the agency which oversees J-1 students, have temporarily relaxed restrictions on online coursework, allowing students to remain active in the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS). Per SEVP, “If a school closes temporarily but offers online instruction or another alternative learning procedure, nonimmigrant students should participate in online or other alternate learning procedures and remain in active status in SEVIS… Given the extraordinary nature of the COVID-19 emergency, SEVP will allow… students to temporarily count online classes towards a full course of study in excess of the limits [set in the regulations], even if they have left the United States and are taking the online classes from elsewhere. This temporary provision is only in effect for the duration of the emergency.”

Per SEVP, “Due to the fluid nature of this difficult situation, this guidance may be subject to change. SEVP will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation and will adjust its guidance as needed.”


**If I decide to return to my home country to complete this semester online, will my F-1 or J-1 record remain active?**
Students’ SEVIS records will remain active as long as they stay enrolled full-time at UNC-Chapel Hill for the Spring 2020 semester and are completing their current courses remotely. Students who wish to withdraw from the current semester or withdraw for the fall semester, should follow the procedures on the ISSS website regarding withdrawal or leave of absence.  Any withdrawal from the current semester must be done before the semester ends.

**What are my reporting requirements during this time?**

Both exchange students and degree-seeking students must continue to report changes in their U.S. address and contact information during this time. This is a regulatory requirement but will also allow ISSS to continue to support you. Please see below for guidance on how to keep your information current:  

For Students Remaining in the U.S.:  

Address: Update your SEVIS Immigration Reporting Address in your ConnectCarolina Student Center to the current location where you are residing, even if this is only a temporary address. You must update your address within 10 days of relocating any time you move.  

Phone Number: Update your “Preferred” phone number in your ConnectCarolina Student Center. 

Students outside of the U.S.:

Address: Update your SEVIS Immigration Reporting Address in your ConnectCarolina Student Center to your last known U.S. address. Do NOT change this to an address outside of the U.S. Update your SEVIS Foreign Address to your permanent address in your home country.  

Phone Number: Update your “Preferred” phone number in your ConnectCarolina Student Center. Your “Preferred” phone number may be an international number.

**I am concerned about how this situation will impact me financially. What kind of financial assistance might be available to me?**
Resources for undergraduate and graduate and professional students seeking information on possible financial support can be found on Carolina’s Keep Learning website.


## FOR DEGREE-SEEKING STUDENTS:
**If I leave or have left the U.S., what happens if I am out of the U.S. for more than 5 months?**

The 5-month absence rule does not apply if students are maintaining full-time enrollment in Spring 2020 and intend to enroll for the Fall 2020 semester. ISSS will not close your F-1 or J-1 SEVIS record as long as you are enrolled full-time for Spring 2020 and intend to enroll for Fall 2020. Students who wish to withdraw from the current semester or who intend to withdraw for the fall semester should follow the procedures on the ISSS website regarding withdrawal or leave of absence.  
**If I leave or have left the U.S. and I don’t have a valid travel endorsement on my Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 but I intend to return to the U.S. in the future, what do I do?**

An ISSS advisor can re-issue a Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 for travel. Students will need to complete the Travel Endorsement Request Form and email the completed form to their International Student Advisor. Students must create a shipping label via eShipGlobal to have the Form I-20 or DS-2019 express mailed to them. This service will be available so long as express mail couriers continue operating. 
 
**Will the visa in my passport expire if I am outside the U.S. for more than 5 months?** 

The visa in your passport will not expire for being outside the U.S. for more than 5 months. The expiration date remains valid regardless of the length of time you are outside the U.S. Students should check to make sure their visa stamp is still valid at the time they wish to re-enter the U.S.  
 
**If my visa expires while I’m still outside the U.S., what should I do?** 

Students who need to apply for a new visa stamp in their passport should contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their home country. Many embassies and consulates are currently closed, so students will need to monitor the embassy’s website for information about reopening. More information regarding documentation needed to apply for a visa stamp is on the ISSS website.  

**I am in F-1 status and I am supposed to graduate in May 2020. Can I still apply for Optional Practical Training (OPT)?**

International Student Advisors are continuing to process requests for a new Form I-20 with OPT recommendation. Students can submit their request documents through email to their International Student Advisor. Students will need to create a shipping label with eShipGlobal so the I-20 can be mailed. Once a student receives the Form I-20, they should sign the form at the bottom and make a copy to mail with their application to USCIS. OPT applications should be submitted to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) while the student is still in the U.S.

**If I have an internship offer for the summer, will I be able to receive work authorization?**
 
Please review the information regarding employment on the ISSS website. Students who are eligible for practical training can submit their application materials to their International Student Advisor via email.  While ISSS may be able to continue processing applications for practical training for the summer, students should follow University directives about any travel restrictions. Due to the rapidly evolving situation, travel directives are subject to change. Please also refer to the University’s COVID-19 website for more information on University policies regarding travel restrictions.

**What happens if I applied for Post-Completion OPT, and I need to leave the U.S.? Can I re-enter the U.S. when the travel restrictions are lifted?**
Once the OPT application is approved, students will need the Employment Authorization Document (EAD card) and a job offer to re-enter the U.S. Students with questions should contact their International Student Advisor.

**What if I was scheduled to leave the U.S., and borders in my home country are closed? Or, how do I remain in compliance despite travel restrictions in my home country and the U.S.?**

You should review your home country’s official information on border closures and see if citizens of the country are permitted to return. In many cases, travel in this way is permitted. As the situation develops, if students are unable to return to the U.S. for Fall 2020 due to travel restrictions, they can reach out to their International Student Advisor for guidance on how to proceed. Students may only continue to stay in the U.S. during this time if they continue to maintain their F-1 or J-1 status.

**What concerns should I have about consular services closing worldwide? Will I need their service if I have a valid visa to return to the U.S.?**
Students should check the F-1 or J-1 visa stamp in their passport to make sure it is not expired. If the visa is unexpired, there is no need to visit a U.S. embassy or consulate. Students will need to have a valid travel endorsement on their Form I-20 or Form DS-2019 from an ISSS advisor.

**I am graduating this semester and will be attending graduate school or a new program at another U.S. school in Fall 2020. Do I need to leave the U.S. and apply for a new F-1 visa?**

Students currently in F-1 or J-1 status may be eligible to transfer their SEVIS record to their new institution. Once the record has been released from UNC-Chapel Hill to their new institution, the new institution will be able to issue the student a new Form 1-20 or DS-2019. Students can remain in the U.S. for the entire process, even if the F-1 or J-1 visa in their passport will expire. A valid F-1 or J-1 visa is only required for re-entry into the U.S. after a trip overseas. If the student has a valid F-1 or J-1 visa, they can use their current visa with the new Form I-20 or DS-2019 from their new institution to re-enter the U.S.



## FOR EXCHANGE/NON-DEGREE STUDENTS:
**If I’m an EXCHANGE student and I left the U.S., can I re-enter in F-1 status after my I-20 end date?** 

If you are an exchange student in F-1 status and you depart the U.S., you cannot re-enter the U.S. after the program end date on the Form I-20. If you would like to re-enter the U.S. after the program end date, you would need to do so in another immigration status.

**If I’m an EXCHANGE student and I left the U.S., will I still have a 60-day grace period?** 

Exchange students who are outside of the U.S. and are not able to re-enter before their program ends will not get the 60-day grace period after the program end date on their Form I-20.

**As an EXCHANGE student, am I allowed to work in the U.S. over the summer while in F-1 status?**

Exchange students are not eligible for practical training (work authorization) while in F-1 status.  Students wanting to work in the summer must receive sponsorship from the employer or another organization for an immigration status that would allow them to work in the U.S.

## Information provided is not intended as legal advice. Students are encouraged to consult a licensed attorney for legal advice.
