---
# templateKey: news-page
title: Message from campus leaders on social distancing
subtitle:
date: 2020-03-24
link: >-
  https://www.unc.edu/posts/2020/03/24/message-social-distancing/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-unc
tags:
  - 政策解读
  - Policy
---
"It is important that everyone in our community practice social distancing. That means staying home as much as possible, going out only when essential, avoiding groups of 10 or more people and staying 6 feet away from others when you must be out."

<div class="author-metadata"><span class="author-name">Posted by University Communications,</span> Tuesday, March 24th, 2020</div>

<div class="has-content-area" data-url="https://www.unc.edu/posts/2020/03/24/message-social-distancing/" data-title="Message from campus leaders on social distancing" title="undefined">

<div class="pf-content">

Dear Carolina community,

As we’ve said before, these are unprecedented times for all of us. We are all being asked to do things that are new for us, including avoiding contact with others. However, infectious disease experts from our campus and beyond all agree this is a crucial step we must all take to slow the spread of the coronavirus.

**It is important that everyone in our community practice social distancing.**That means staying home as much as possible, going out only when essential, avoiding groups of 10 or more people and staying 6 feet away from others when you must be out.

Remember the COVID-19 virus can be contracted and carried by someone without them knowing it, which makes it possible for you to give it to someone else without even realizing you are sick. It is important to protect yourself and so many people around you, including loved ones, who are at high risk of dying from this disease. It is also a selfless act of public service. Our health care workers and first responders are on the front lines fighting this disease, and we need to decrease the number of potential cases to avoid overloading our health care system.

For those students still in Chapel Hill either on campus due to a special circumstances waiver or staying in off-campus housing, we understand getting outside and exercising are important to your physical and mental health. However, we are not permitting large groups on our sports fields or our campus. We encourage you to exercise on your own or with a partner at least 6 feet away. Moving forward, we will ask large groups to disperse, and you may be at risk of losing your special circumstances waiver if you continue to gather on campus.

Please do your part to help “flatten the curve” by following these guidelines.

Sincerely,

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
_Chancellor_

Robert A. Blouin
_Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost_

</div>

</div>
