---
title: "Collaboration Labs success: Developing opportunities and training for PGRs"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-06-08
link: >-
  https://studentnews.manchester.ac.uk/2020/06/08/collaboration-labs-success-developing-opportunities-and-training-for-pgrs/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-manchester
---
Collaboration Labs are funded schemes that aim to support research consultancy opportunities, professional training and coaching for postgraduate and early career researchers. In the most recent round there were almost 60 successful applications from researchers interested in either developing collaborations with business organisations or working in interdisciplinary teams to tackle business challenges. Researchers could apply to whichever branch suited their interests and aspirations: * **Collaboration Labs: Business Challenges** (developed in collaboration with Code Switch Consultancy) is, a programme of activities and funding to support businesses and cultural organisations with research expertise tailored to their needs. We hope to support a variety of business partners with an interdisciplinary team of PGRs/ECRs who will receive funding as well as professional training and coaching for the whole period. * **Researcher-Led Collaboration Labs**, (developed in collaboration with FutureEverything), offers postgraduate/early career researchers and external partners the opportunity to co-design bespoke collaborative projects for mutual benefit. Participating partners will receive dedicated research support from one or more researchers, who will receive funding as well as professional training in consultancy skills and coaching. Collaboration Labs are open to all Humanities and Social Science postgraduate and early career researchers of the University of Manchester, Keele, Liverpool and Lancaster, who can identify their research as at least 51% Social Sciences as well as AHRC/NWCDTP and ESRC/NWSSDTP funded postgraduate researchers (University of Manchester, MMU, Salford, RNCM, Lancaster, Liverpool, Keele). The Manchester project team have been working with business engagement colleagues in all four of the NWSSDTP institution, as well as their own networks to successfully engage business partners. In this round, seven business challenges have been agreed, and 35 applicants accepted. Researchers will be matched to businesses this week. The researcher led stream received 44 applications of which 24 have been accepted. There will be another round of Collaboration Labs in November; you can check eligibility and find out more information on the [University Project pages](https://www.humanities.manchester.ac.uk/researcher-development/knowledge-exchange/collaboration-labs/business-challenges-lab/) . 
