---
title: Resume implementation of return to on-campus operations plans
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-02
link: >-
  https://covid19.illinois.edu/massmail-announcements/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-illinois
---
**Resume implementation of return to on-campus operations plans**   
June 2, 2020 10:59 AM 

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

Thank you for your cooperation in postponing our return to on-campus operations plans earlier this week.

I am writing to share that we are now ready to resume the plans to strategically and incrementally begin the return to on-campus operations process.

Units are now clear to resume implementing their return plans. This includes those involved in essential maintenance of our facilities or working in research labs and facilities. As a reminder, PIs and lab managers must have verified COVID-19 Safety SOPs in place before returning to onsite research activities.

Again, unless you were already instructed to begin reporting to campus this week, please do not change your personal current working arrangements until you are given specific new guidance by your supervisor.

I want to take this opportunity to thank our University of Illinois Police Department (UIPD) for their assistance in facilitating and supporting the peaceful demonstrations, so our community members could exercise their First Amendment rights. I am proud of UIPD’s continued efforts to build positive relationships across our campus and into the greater community, and I am proud of those members of our campus community who protested peacefully.

As I have said many times, these are days when the well-being of our community depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another.

Robert J. Jones  
Chancellor 
