---
title: How can I be involved in shaping my learning for next year?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  http://www.exeter.ac.uk/coronavirus/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-exeter
---
We want to hear your feedback and we want to give you an opportunity to play an active, hands-on role in developing our digitally-enhanced portfolio over the coming months.

**Listening to your feedback:** Having reached the end of what may have been your first taste of online learning and online examinations, you are now in a great position to reflect on the experience and help shape digital enhancement of your degree programmes.

**Paid opportunities:** We realise the additional challenges in the internship and employment environment this year and we need your expert input into our online learning offer going forward. Therefore, we are making a substantial investment in a number of new roles, these include:

  * **100 Digital Learning Analyst Internships (Student Campus Partner opportunities).** We are seeking at least two of these roles in every academic department to undertake 100 hours of part-time flexible work (remotely when/if necessary).


  * **30 Graduate Business Partners to train as Graduate Digital Learning Developers** these are full-time or part-time roles for a period of 12 months (remote when/if necessary), you would first receive training in digital content production in the context of online learning.



We hope that many of you will be interested in these exciting opportunities not only to shape the future of your degree programmes but also to gain invaluable digital skills that are highly sought after by employers across all sectors. Other opportunities will be coming and we will share more details as soon as we can. For more information on these fantastic opportunities and for details on how to apply visit our [Enhancement internships page.](http://www.exeter.ac.uk/careers/internships/enhance/)
