---
title: Student newsletter, sent 12 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-12
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
Hey – how are you doing? 2020 has been one of great challenge for many so far – for you, your family and your friends. We know that as we move in to middle of June, the pandemic has left many of us feeling overwhelmed and wanting to return back to normality. 
As we’ve watched the news unfold on our screens and in our social media feeds over the past few weeks, even months, we know that these events can affect how you’re feeling, what you’re thinking and your mental health. Try to take time out of your day to understand how you’re feeling, and becoming more aware of your emotions, yourself and your surroundings. Remember, University support is available, even while you are away from campus, and you can still access resources such as Big White Wall and self-help support.  
Don’t forget… 
“In a world where you can be anything, be kind”.

Exams and dissertations
We know that this exam period was different from others, and we’d like to say a huge well done to you for completing your exams. For those of you who are still working on your dissertations – keep at it, there’s not long to go! Remember, you can still speak to your school if you’ve got any specific questions regarding your work.

Returning to campus 
On Wednesday 10 June, you should have received an email explaining the plan to return to campus in September. In summary:
Our campus will reopen in September with teaching scheduled to start on 28 September 2020. 
Teaching activities with large numbers of students will go ahead using digital technology.
Teaching in small-group settings (seminars, tutorials, practicals, etc.) will be delivered face-to-face, on campus wherever it can be done safely in line with the government guidance.
When your teaching and learning takes place online, we will follow a set of agreed principles to ensure your experience is high-quality, engaging, inclusive and flexible to your needs. 

You will receive further detail from your school in July.  In the meantime, you can view a video that summarises key points from this week’s email online.

Final year students
The graduation team will soon be in touch with you about updating your details to make sure your degree certificate and transcript are sent to the correct address. We’ll also use your updated contact details to get back in touch with you once plans for a celebration are confirmed.
Remember, this isn’t the end of your time at Leeds, and you can join the Leeds alumni online to stay in touch with the university, your friends and receive support once you’ve graduated.

Financial support
If you find yourself in financial hardship, please don’t feel alone; there are people you can talk to and who can advise you on how to deal with the situation.
LUU’s Help and Support team provide a range of support relating to finances. The team can also help you apply for financial support that’s available through LUU and the University. This includes applying for support through LUU’s Emergency Hardship Fund for students with limited or no funds, who are experiencing or at risk of experiencing immediate financial difficulty. 

New alternative format tool in Minerva
You now have the option to download alternative formats of files in your 19/20 modules in Minerva e.g. audio, ePub, HTML, electronic Braille.  This means if your lecturer has uploaded a Word document, but you prefer audio, you'll have the option to download it in that format. Look for the 'A' Ally download icon next to files in Minerva; see the quick guide on Ally to find out more.

Student voices help shape the University’s future.
Student-centred education, digital development, health & wellbeing and inclusion & diversity have emerged as high priorities for students in a consultation on the University’s strategy for the next 10 years.
Over 1,000 students took part in workshops and an online survey, inviting feedback on the University’s draft strategy for 2020-2030. Read key points from the consultation online.

Phishing attack
Recently a number of student accounts have been compromised. What this means is that people have entered their details in fake phishing emails, and their account taken over. The result is your account being used for sending out more malicious emails in your name, or potentially using your details for whatever they choose. Never enter your username and password into an email link. If you’re unsure, check with the IT service desk, or contact the organisation directly that is claiming they need your details. 

Global ranking success
We have moved up two places in the latest QS World University Rankings, consolidating our place in the top 100. In a year that sees three quarters of UK universities in the influential global ranking slip down the table, Leeds has climbed to 91 in the rankings.

Complete University Guide 2021
Leeds is celebrating success after featuring in the top ten rankings for 18 subjects, according to the Complete University Guide 2021 – one of the most influential league tables in the UK.

Careers support
For many of you who have finished your time at University, or are looking for work over the summer or in the near future as lockdown restrictions are slowly lifted, remember you can  contact the Careers centre for guidance on interviews, CV writing and list of opportunities and events. Remember that Leeds University Union (LUU) have some excellent blogs as well as vacancies on their Job Link website. 
Recommended careers-related content on LinkedIn Learning
In response to student feedback, Student Careers have developed some collections of careers-related content on LinkedIn Learning. Topics include, CVs, Presentations, Interviews, Workplace skills, Self-awareness, and more. Remember that you can access these, and 1000s of other online learning via LinkedIn Learning for free. See our website for details
.
In case you’ve missed it
Information on how we support #BlackLivesMatter.
LUU’s virtual union.
View our coronavirus website for the latest information, guidance and updated FAQs.
Petition to reverse changes made to stops made by the X84 and X85 buses.