---
title: Summary Update on COVID-19-related Developments
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-08
link: >-
  https://www.nyu.edu/about/leadership-university-administration/office-of-the-president/office-of-the-provost/provostial-communications/summary-update-on-covid-19-related-developments-june.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-nyu
---
**Date:** June 8, 2020 **To:** THE NYU COMMUNITY **From: ** Katherine Fleming, Provost; Martin Dorph, Executive Vice President; Dr. Carlo Ciotoli, Assoc. Vice President for Student Health ## New York Forward - New York City In Phase 1 As of today, June 8, New York City is in Phase 1 of the State's reopening plan, called [New York Forward](https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=https-3A__t.e2ma.net_click_60ejam_m1dbtfj_qk3qyh&d;=DwMFaQ&c;=slrrB7dE8n7gBJbeO0g-IQ&r;=TKHj_j7q8FoRdO4nn9U8EA&m;=T0CGeO-NRsFw1BSxcffHefWmuRdGRVrcCHRUONDnq_M&s;=I6gkiSYveluf79QWwnmo-fNBvNphG7JxYZsRcm5Rs1I&e;=). What does that mean for NYU academic and administrative operations? ### The Research Enterprise The gradual [ramp-up of research activity](/content/nyu/en/life/safety-health-wellness/coronavirus-information/messages-to-the-community/updates-and-new-protocols-for-entering-nyu-buildings.html) begins today (for health- and defense-related research), with attendant new safety protocols in the 16 facilities where the increased research activity is occurring. These safety protocols will be features of NYU's later, broader reopening: * A required [Daily COVID-19 Symptom Check](/content/nyu/en/life/safety-health-wellness/coronavirus-information/messages-to-the-community/important-additional-information-about-accessing-research-buildi.html) to determine whether members of the community can proceed * Required face coverings in NYU buildings * Required social distancing ### Activities for the Rest of the University Will Be Largely Unchanged As before, summer courses will be held remotely; administrative personnel should expect to work remotely for most of the summer, at least until some are required for the return of students and other in-person campus activity; essential employees are to continue to report to work. ## Looking Ahead ### Accommodations Relating to the Resumption of In-Person Activity in the Fall In planning for the resumption of in-person activity for the fall, schools and units have begun the process of determining who will be working in person and who will be working remotely. ### Guidance from the State about Higher Education Specific guidance for institutions of higher learning is expected from New York State in the near future, perhaps as early as this week. The University will follow with more detailed planning for the fall later in June. 
