---
title: All student email (UG and PGT) - 12 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-12
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/resources/coronavirus/Covid-19UGandPGTemail12June2020.pdf
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
Dear student,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it
carefully.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University
• Government update
• Degree conferral

Government update

Since our last update, Government guidance on helping to control the spread of Covid-19
remains unchanged. As the government lays out plans to ease lockdown restrictions, we
urge you all to continue to follow guidance and:
• stay at home as much as possible
• work from home if you can
• limit contact with other people
• keep your distance if you go out (2 metres apart where possible)
• wash your hands regularly
Do not leave home if you or anyone in your household has symptoms.
To find out more about the latest government advice, please visit www.gov.uk
If you are not currently in England, please continue to follow local government advice.

Degree conferral

You will be aware that as well moving this year’s summer Congregation to April 2021, the
University is hoping to hold a virtual graduation process to confer degrees on this year’s
leavers over the summer.
The exact nature and timing of this process are yet to be confirmed by the Academic Office
but we currently anticipate it being in early to mid-August. We will let you know as soon as
plans are confirmed.

Conclusion

In recent weeks we have provided information to help you plan for the safe and orderly
collection of your belongings from Durham. As always, we have developed these plans with
the health and wellbeing of our colleagues, students and local community as our priority.
If you are making plans to collect your belongings, please follow government guidance on
gatherings, plan your journey and read the FAQs on our website. 
Above all else, please continue to act in a way that protects yourself, your family and friends,
and neighbours.

Best wishes,
Claire O’Malley
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)