---
title: Friday, June 12, 2020 - From the Office of Residence Life
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-12
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Dear Residential Students,

Miami Move-In is quickly approaching. In fact the timeline for moving into residence halls, Heritage Commons Apartments, and Hawks Landing has been moved up to the week of August 10 because classes will now begin on August 17 (see the [revised academic calendar](https://miamioh.edu/academic-calendar/multi-year/index.html#revised) for more details). We are excited to welcome over 8,000 new and returning students to our residence halls and apartments.

To help maintain physical distancing, we will have a staggered move-in schedule. You will be assigned a specific move-in day and time. New students will be assigned a day and time between August 10 and August 14, and returning students will be assigned to a day and time between August 12 and August 16.

Your assigned move-in day and time will be emailed to you with your housing assignment letter, which you should receive no later than July 15. The assignment letter will include instructions for students who are unable to arrive on their assigned date.

Pre-Move-In Days for the weekend of August 8th and 9th will be available for students who would like to sign-up to drop off belongings and set up their room prior to their official move-in day. Students who participate in Pre-Move-In Days will have their card access temporarily turned on in order to complete the move, and will not be charged an additional fee. More details about this option will be included in your housing assignment letter. Residence hall community meetings for new students will begin at 6:00 PM on August 14.

Information regarding pre-semester activities (Miami Bound, Marching Band, ROTC, Scholar Leader, etc.) will be coming from the leaders of those programs soon. In most cases, the timeline for those experiences will also be moved back one week to fit with the new academic calendar.

Everyone will be expected to wear face coverings and follow our Miami Move-in Guidelines on move-in day:

  * Be prepared to move in as quickly and efficiently as possible. The number of students will be limited in each time block to help maintain physical distancing and will allow others to move in more safely.
  * Please limit the number of people you bring with you to only those you need to help you move your belongings into the halls.
  * Pay attention to your physical proximity to others. Be vigilant about maintaining a six-foot radius between individuals outside of your moving party.
  * Bring your own face coverings and gloves.
  * While rooms will be clean, you will want to bring along wipes and sanitizer since there will be limited supplies on hand.
  * Dining halls will be open for carry-out dining.



New students will receive their ID cards upon arriving at their residence hall provided you have uploaded your picture in advance. We will be providing more details about the logistics of move-in day later in the summer. Thank you for your patience and flexibility as we work together for a smooth move-in process.

Sincerely,

Office of Residence Life  
Campus Services
