---
title: A Letter to UWA Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-04
link: >-
  https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/3gi1r8c4r1du1ci1lg7moo
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uwa
---
Dear UWA Students 2020 may well be the year we may all prefer to forget as it has certainly not gone the way any of us has expected. It is likely to become the stuff of legend. But for you I am sure your ingenuity, resilience and spirit to keep going will be at the heart of your memories and will certainly become part of UWA’s history. You will talk of this in years to come – be proud, you survived. This is particularly true for our 2020 commencing students and those not able to get to Perth – all of you have missed the rite of passage that is _Uni campus life_. I am hopeful we will make this up to you over the next few semesters. In the context of Reconciliation Week, Mabo Day and _#BlackLivesMatter_, we are continuing to face questions and confront uncomfortable truths about human dignity, injustice and what we will and will not tolerate in a civil society. I remind us all that while we watch the events unfolding in cities in the US, let’s remember that we in Australia can also do much better. We must uphold and celebrate diversity, fairness and inclusivity. Always. Many of you will have seen or heard the Premier’s [announcement](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/1ljrzlkzy7cu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) last week in which he eased the COVID-19 restrictions for WA from this Saturday, allowing greater freedom in how we can meet. While this will be a welcome relief for many of us, our Recovery Management Team has been carefully considering how this will affect our return to campus plan and is currently undertaking a thorough risk assessment of the WA Phase 3 advice. Today there is an update on how we will program the Semester 2 timetable. **In short:** * **Semester 2 timetabling ** * **Exam study support** **Semester 2 timetabling** We are currently planning for the safe return for students who wish to be on campus in Semester 2\\. As you already know, Semester 2 will be delivered in online mode wherever possible for those of you who cannot make it to campus due to travel restrictions, and also for those of you who would prefer to continue with online learning. With a need to maintain space between people, we will have reduced venue capacity across campus. This means we will have to be selective about which classes can be prioritised for face-to-face teaching. The current timetable will need to be rescheduled to accommodate these variations. To help us determine the demand for on-campus teaching, ** _we ask that you update your contact details in [studentConnect](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/uq4wcatop4su1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769)._** Do this now! The Semester 2 timetable is CURRENTLY being adjusted and this means the timetable available online is not accurate and should not be used in planning your Semester. We will keep you updated on the timeline for the Class Allocation System (CAS) being available, as well as the date that the new Semester 2 timetable will be published. Please continue to check your student email and the [Student website](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/19u3mx1opeuu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) for updates. **Exam study support** As you head into the last couple of days before Semester 1 exams commence, remember all the support services and resources available to you. This includes prepared one page guides for [Blackboard (LMS)](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/12jhkatjkbsu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) and [Examplify (ExamSoft)](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/py6q03p7jnzu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) exams with quick tips to help you get started and submit your exams. * [Online exam resources](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/1vi2lnv90hou1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) * [STUDYSmarter](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/12h7zli8rjtu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) * [UWA Library study support](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/ycgl3gsa8pmu1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) * [LinkedIn Learning](https://theuniversityofwesternaustralia.newsweaver.com/10vv51er7f/15f043rikbau1ci1lg7moo/external?a=5&p;=4780576&t;=2667769) And so it’s that time – exam time. For those of you sitting Semester 1 exams, I wish you all the very best! You’ve worked hard to get to this point and persevered through some very challenging times. So while you are studying remember the advice of one of our favourite philosophers, Dr Seuss: “_The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn the more places you’ll go.”_ Prepare well, keep healthy – and dream about the future and where you _will_ go.  Best Jane and Bre **Professor Jane den Hollander AO** **Vice-Chancellor** **Bre Shanahan President** **UWA Student Guild** Vice-Chancellery • M464, Perth WA 6009 Australia 
