---
title: What will happen in September?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  https://www.qmul.ac.uk/coronavirus/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qmul
---
Our primary concern is the wellbeing and safety of our students and staff. We are currently planning to welcome you to our campuses in person in September: if you are able to travel to join us on campus, please plan to do so. If you can’t travel, we will make sure you can fully access your education from wherever you are and will look forward to welcoming you in person as soon as your local restrictions are lifted. 

To enable this, from September to January, we will be offering an inclusive [blended learning approach](https://www.qmul.ac.uk/media/news/2020/pr/queen-mary-offers-dual-start-dates-for-a-range-of-its-most-popular-postgraduate-courses-and-moves-to-blended-education-for-the-first-semester.html), that is, with a core backbone of lectures and seminars online and wrap-around academic advising and mentoring support embedded. 

For those able to join us on our campuses, this will be supplemented by face-to-face educational activities. Wherever you are, you will be able to join our community: in person or, if necessary, online. For those who have to start online, you can then join us in London in person as soon as you are able to do so. We have expanded our online learning facilities and we will be using the latest bespoke technology to ensure wherever you are, you can fully access your Queen Mary education.

If you are able to join us on campus in September, we will ensure that our premises and activities follow government guidance and that we are Covid-19 secure.  We are re-configuring our campuses, including our lecture theatres and other learning spaces, our libraries, and our study and social spaces, to ensure that we can all stay safe. 

If you begin your academic year remotely, our IT systems are equipped with the latest protection to safeguard you and your work. 

We will be in touch on an ongoing basis over the next months to update you of our plans, share resources and answer your questions. 
