---
title: Important changes to Tuition Fees for international students offshore
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  https://about.uq.edu.au/covid-19-student-communication
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uq
---
**Date** | **Subject** | **To** | **From**  
---|---|---|---  
  
5 June

| 

Important changes to Tuition Fees

| 

International students offshore studying online

| 

DVCEE  
  
Semester 2 at UQ will be on campus and online.

For international students who are unable join us in Australia due to COVID-19 travel restrictions, UQ offers the following:

**12.5% UQ COVID-19 Offshore Online Study Tuition Fee Rebate**  
If you are currently overseas and prevented from travelling to Australia due to the Australian Government border controls and will be studying with us online only from your home country for Semester 2 or Summer Semester, you may be eligible for a UQ COVID-19 Offshore Online Study Tuition Fee Rebate. You will need to be a full-fee paying international student undertaking an undergraduate or postgraduate coursework degree. If you are [eligible](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNe~wpvDv8S~xb~Gv9i~yLRj_0pPS77Mv8X~z7~Pv~e&2=25836), the rebate will provide a 12.5% reduction of your tuition fees based on your actual course enrolments in Semester 2 or Summer Semester 2020.

**$2000 Contribution towards 2-week Quarantine costs and other Assistance Services**  
If you are currently overseas, UQ will provide services and arrange accommodation up to the value of $2000 when you are able to travel to Australia to continue your studies but are subject to 2 weeks supervised quarantine. This will include:

  * Accommodation for 2 weeks (arranged through a UQ approved provider)
  * Airport pickup to transport you to your accommodation
  * Food and necessities starter pack
  * Welfare contact to assist you with transition to UQ and Brisbane
  * Access to counsellors (mental health and wellbeing)
  * Access to international student advisers
  * Access to the student accommodation team to assist you in finding the right home after the 2-week quarantine
  * Access to online based social activities
  * Access to a student mentor
  * Access to participate in the Student Success Program, including additional English Language preparation.



**No Tuition Fee Increase for 2021**  
The impact that COVID-19 is having on societies globally is profound and UQ is committed to delivering knowledge leadership for a better world. To ensure that international students can still access a quality education from a top 50 university, UQ will not increase fees for 2021. 2021 fees will remain at the 2020 level.

You can find out more information about [Preparing for Semester Two](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNe~wpvDv8S~xb~Gv9i~yLRj_0pPS77Mv8X~z7~Pv~e&2=25830) online. We look forward to welcoming you to campus as COVID-19 restrictions continue to ease.

Sincerely,

Mr Rongyu Li  
Deputy Vice-Chancellor & Vice President (External Engagement)  
The University of Queensland  
  
---
