---
title: "Fall 2020: Important information on study and research periods abroad"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-05-25
link: >-
  https://urgence.umontreal.ca/covid-19-en/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-umontreal
---
Dear Student,

Université de Montréal has been closely following the development of the COVID-19 pandemic over the past several weeks. We have been impressed by the way students have persevered and adapted to new conditions of study, research and work in this difficult time. 

The health situation remains uncertain and any predictions would be foolhardy. **We have therefore regretfully decided to suspend study and research visits outside Canada for the Fall 2020 semester.** The overriding consideration was the health and safety of our student body. The decision applies to exchange programs, research stays and internships.

In the coming weeks, we will monitor the situation along with you so that we can accurately determine what developments would make accommodations possible. 

If you have an exchange, research stay or internship planned for this fall, please contact the person responsible in your home unit to discuss possible accommodations, in consultation with the University's central services.

Though study and research visits outside Canada are suspended, UdeM will continue welcoming international students who are enrolled or want to enroll in an undergraduate or graduate program.

As you know, our goal is to make it possible for you to complete your studies under conditions that are healthy and safe. All UdeM staff are there to support you during this period of upheaval.

**If you have any questions,**[see the ](/covid-19-en/)[Urgence UdeM](file:///C:/Users/p0775206/Documents/urgence.umontreal.ca) site and the FAQ, which are regularly updated to answer the questions you are sending us at [urgence@umontreal.ca](mailto:urgence@umontreal.ca). There is also a [FAQ about student mobility](https://urgence.umontreal.ca/faq-unites/faq-sae/#c166221).

We will keep you regularly informed in the coming weeks in order to support you in the successful pursuit of your studies.

 

[ French version here](https://urgence.umontreal.ca/evenement/article/169153/)
