---
title: All student email - 8 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-08
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/resources/coronavirus/DRAFTCovid-19UGandPGTemail8June2020FINAL.pdf
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
Dear student,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it carefully.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University
· Government update
· Travel Insurance Claims – Coronavirus

Government update

Since our last update, the UK Government has changed its advice on Covid-19 safety measures and there are now a limited number of things that you can do in England that you could not do before. To find out more please visit www.gov.uk.

To help control the spread of coronavirus in England, please continue to follow government advice;
· stay at home as much as possible
· work from home if you can
· limit contact with other people
· keep your distance if you go out (2 metres apart where possible)
· wash your hands regularly

Do not leave home if you or anyone in your household has symptoms.

To find out more about the latest government advice, please visit www.gov.uk

If you are not currently in England, please continue to follow local government advice.

Travel Cover Claims – Coronavirus

In certain circumstances, students who had University travel cover confirmed in the Viator system and whose trips on University business were affected by the Covid-19 may submit a claim to our cover providers. Predominately this applies to trips curtailed after the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issued unambiguous instructions for UK nationals to return and also to trips cancelled due to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advising against all non-essential international travel. Curtailment claims may also be submitted where a host university has cancelled (not postponed or suspended) teaching on a course and/or closed the student’s accommodation on the same basis.

Advice from Durham University itself for a traveller to return home or not to travel is not sufficient for Curtailment and Cancellation cover to apply. Concerns over the risks arising from the virus, in the absence of specific Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice to return home, would not be sufficient for Curtailment cover to apply.

Please note that before submitting a claim for Curtailment of a trip due to the Foreign Office advice for travellers to return or where the host university has cancelled teaching on a course and/or closed the student’s accommodation, claims can only be made in respect of flight costs and only where a return flight had already been booked. No ongoing accommodation or other costs can be recovered under the terms of the University’s travel cover.

Usually, claims need to be submitted within 30 days but it is understood that obtaining refunds from airlines and such like is taking longer than normal at present. We would ask that you now prioritise your claim and submit it no later than 30 June 2020.

To submit a claim for consideration by our cover providers, the following is needed:
· A fully completed claim form, which can be obtained from the Cancellation Claims page on our website, including the table of costs on page 3. The claim form must be signed
· Original travel itinerary and costs for outbound and inbound travel, including date of booking and dates of travel
· Please highlight the additional costs incurred to return to UK. Please note that there is no cover unless a return flight had already been purchased
· You must also seek any refunds available and provide full details of these. Note that taxes on non-refundable flight tickets are often still refundable. Our cover providers cannot consider your claim unless you provide this information
· For any trip which was Curtailed prior to 24 March please provide confirmation of reason for Curtailment i.e. curtailed or cancelled conference/placement/elective
· For claims involving Cancellation prior to 17 March (depending on place of travel) please provide confirmation of reason for Cancellation i.e. cancelled conference/placement/elective

Completed claim forms and supporting documentation should be scanned and sent in PDF format to claire.robinson@durham.ac.uk or d.j.manley@durham.ac.uk. The final decision on whether a claim is covered rests with the Cover Providers rather than Durham University and there is no guarantee that a claim will be accepted.

Conclusion

As we start another week in lockdown, we would like to thank you again for your ongoing patience as we work through the challenges posed by Covid-19 and hope that you and your families are safe and well at this challenging time.

Planning for the months ahead continues and we will provide further updates as soon as information is available. In the meantime, please visit our Covid-19 webpages for answers to frequently asked questions or contact coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk.

Best wishes,
Claire O’Malley
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)