---
title: Doctoral College Newsletter, sent 10 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-10
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
The Leeds Doctoral College Newsletter is emailed to all postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and members of the Doctoral College, and is published as an announcement on the Leeds Doctoral College Organisation on Minerva and leeds.ac.uk  Past editions can be requested via email. 

UPDATES
For the latest general advice, please check the latest news on our dedicated coronavirus website and PGR FAQs. There is also an archive of the coronavirus updates sent to students.

Planning for the return to campus
I wrote to all PGRs on 5 June to outline the development of our planning for the rest of this academic year and the beginning of the next, including the logistics of a safe return to campus (including the resumption of research on site). Discussions are also taking place regarding access to the library resources and we will update you with more information as soon as we can.  

Virtual Windows Desktop
The Virtual Windows Desktop is now available. It provides access to a Windows 10 desktop and a number of software applications from your personal computer.

Phishing emails
The IT Service Desk have reported an increase in the amount of phishing emails received to University email accounts over the last week.  Please be aware, and don’t enter your log-in details or click on any links unless you are sure it is genuine.  
How to spot scams and report phishing emails

Keep in touch 
It is still vitally important that you make regular contact with your supervisor/s and continue to maintain your GRAD record. If your work is affected by the current circumstances in any way (eg lack of access to facilities, inability to carry out fieldwork, caring duties, etc) please record the details in a ‘supervision meeting’ record on GRAD so that your supervisors are aware and so that we can take this into account should we need to in future. If your circumstances change in any way, or you have any concerns, please contact your Graduate School – all teams are working from home but still available on emails.

Please get in touch with the Doctoral College if there is anything more that you need to know.  Your safety and wellbeing are our priority.

DOCTORAL COLLEGE GOOD NEWS
We want to celebrate your successes, big or small. Please send any good news to Doctoral College

PGR success at Leeds Partnership Awards
The Partnership awards took place over Twitter this year, and we were delighted to see so many members of the PGR community nominated and receive awards:
Sarah Crossland – shortlisted for the Equality and Inclusion award
Karen Tatham – winner of Postgraduate Researchers Who Teach or Demonstrate award
Annabel Whipp, Christopher Turner, Liz Travis, Luiza Galarion, Maje Haruna, Oluwaseun Olabode and Rebecca Starr – shortlisted for Postgraduate Researchers Who Teach or Demonstrate award
Haruko Nakao – shortlisted for Student Academic Rep of the Year 
Linda Watson was also shortlisted and highly commended for the Positive Impact award for her work in supporting PGRs in the AHC Graduate School.

UPCOMING EVENTS AND OPPORTUNITIES
#BeCuriousGoesVirtual is underway!
The Public Engagement Team are sharing 3 weeks of exciting and inspiring family friendly resources and video content created by UGs, PGRs and academic staff, to help the public explore just some of the world-leading research happening at the University of Leeds.
Join in on Twitter https://twitter.com/UniLeedsEngage for daily video content and activities and follow all the fun using the #BeCuriousGoesVirtual hashtag

CERIC Anniversary Webinar Series
The Centre for Employment Relations, Innovation and Change will host a series of webinars as part of the Centre’s 15 year Anniversary celebrations and to showcase the Centre's diverse research interests and sustained record of research on social inequalities, voice and representation and digital futures of work.  CERIC is a focal point for research and knowledge transfer around the changing dynamics and future of work, employment and labour markets, and is the largest interdisciplinary group of social scientists working in this field in the UK.

Kings Open Research Conference
The inaugural King’s Open Research Conference will take place on 11 June 2020 10am to 6pm.  In a series of talks and a roundtable discussion, world renowned researchers, stakeholders and initiatives will discuss the necessity for Open Research with the view of engendering a research culture shift toward open, accessible, and reproducible research. The event is online and open to all.  

Practice-led PhD Symposium
A joint initiative between the Schools of Design and Fine Art, History of Art & Cultural Studies, this symposium is an opportunity for practice-led researchers in FAHACS and School of Design to share research topics and methodologies. The event is an important step in building a research community for practice-based research in Leeds that will continue beyond the end of individual projects. The idea is to develop relationships, networks, connections and collaborations into the future.
The symposium will be held on 16 June from 10am to 1.30pm via Teams. Email Dr Judith Tucker for joining details. 

Perspectives on Agri-Food System Sustainability in East Africa
This webinar presents perspectives on the social and ecological dynamics that are shaping agriculture and food systems in East Africa.
Join us to hear three presentations from PhD projects in the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Centre Network Collaboration on the Social Science of Agri-Food System Sustainability. Covering case studies from the coffee sector, avocado supply chains, and coastal land use, the presenters will explore themes of governance, power, and livelihoods.

WELLBEING AND COMMUNITY 
Dissertation Coffee Hour: Mondays, 11am to 12pm
The LUU Postgraduate team are hosting an online weekly coffee hour for anyone working on their writing up.  Whether you need a break to think about something completely different, have got stuck with research and need some help, or just want to connect with other postgrads, this coffee hour is for you! Bring along your drink of choice and join us every Monday morning. Contact Sagal Arboshe for joining details.

LUU Wellbeing update 
The Student Union is working hard to continue to provide support to all students. You can see updates and access their resources on the dedicated LUU Covid-19 Community group on Facebook. Your Student Reps are also here to help with any concerns. LUU Help & Support is continuing to offer advice on issues including academic concerns, housing, financial or mental health support; please get in touch or call 0113 3801 400. They can also help you to access the emergency hardship fund, available to anyone struggling financially under the current circumstances. 

Carers Week
If you have caring responsibilities, there is lots of support available for you.  This year, many carers are facing additional challenges due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Those looking after someone should be recognised for any difficulties they are experiencing, respected for all they are doing, and provided with information, support and understanding. 

RESEARCH SKILLS AND CAREERS
Connecting with Industry: Live Online Masterclass programme
Open to all social science doctoral students and early career researchers.  
This dynamic and interactive programme is aimed at giving researchers a working knowledge of critical business issues that impact commercial organisations.
You will learn about career routes in industry to access the jobs you want; and gain know-how that lets you engage with industry with more confidence by using the “language of business”. The master class series will run over 6 weeks from the 7 July to 11 Aug, and will be delivered by Skillfluence. 
If you are interested in applying please complete the expression of interest form 
 
Engaged Research: Rethinking the Co-production of Knowledge - Seminar Series
Join us for an interdisciplinary webinar led by the Coproduction Network at Leeds to explore the concept of co-production and aligned methods of participatory research and citizen science. This seminar series seeks to advance the understanding of research co-production and its application and implications across disciplines.

Introduction 11 June 2pm to 3.30pm 
The first seminar will seek to introduce the concepts and uses of co-production, and aligned methods of participatory research and citizen science. 

Showcase 29th June 10am to 12pm 
The second seminar in the series will showcase existing co-produced research across the disciplines and explore different models of co-production, with differing professional groups and communities across a range of disciplines. 

‘Shut Up and Write! For Postgraduates and Staff’ webinar sessions 
These sessions provide a quiet, supportive space to focus on writing, incorporating regular breaks. 
Friday 12 June 10am-12.50pm book here
Tuesday 16 June 1pm-3.50pm book here
Thursday 18 June 10am-12.50pm book here

Connected Papers
This is an interesting tool that we came across via Twitter.  If you enter details of a paper, it creates a graph of similar papers in the field.  Visually fun and potentially pretty useful too: https://www.connectedpapers.com/


Don’t forget to follow us on Twitter and Facebook, and watch out for announcements on Minerva to keep up with future developments and events! 