---
title: Preparing for Semester 2 study
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-04
link: >-
  https://about.uq.edu.au/covid-19-student-communication
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-uq
---
**Date** | **Subject** | **To** | **From**  
---|---|---|---  
  
4 June

| 

Preparing for Semester 2 study

| 

All Coursework Students (Continuing & Commencing) _except HDR and MD students_

| 

DVCA  
  
 

We are getting ready to welcome you for Semester Two, online and on campus. We are particularly looking forward to resuming face-to-face teaching within Government safety guidelines. You can read the UQ Safe Return to Campus Roadmap [here](https://about.uq.edu.au/files/3631/COVID%20road%20map.pdf).

If you are unable to make it to campus, the majority of our courses are available to study fully online to enable your progression until you return to our campuses, and to keep those of you due to graduate this year on track to program completion. Our programs that typically run in external mode will continue to do so.

Semester Two classes will commence on Monday 3rd August, 2020 and I understand that many of you are now considering your course choices.

We have created the [Preparing for Semester Two](https://my.uq.edu.au/information-and-services/manage-my-program/classes-timetables-and-coursework/preparing-study-semester-2-2020) webpage to share all of the important information you need in relation to Semester Two study. Simply click on the heading that best describes your circumstances for access to detailed information, links to useful resources and a checklist of things you should do in the lead up to the start of the Semester.

As always, our [Student Services](https://support.my.uq.edu.au/rd?1=AvNQ~wozDv8S~xb~Gv9k~yKvMuspXy77Mv~x~z7~Pv84&2=25190) team are available if you need further advice and support, or someone to talk to.

I look forward to welcoming you all next semester, whether it is online, or face-to-face, with a little space.

Best wishes

Joanne
