---
title: University announces revised academic calendar for fall, introduces TCU Connected Campus initiative
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-29
link: >-
  https://www.tcu.edu/coronavirus/updates.php
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-tcu
---
**University announces revised academic calendar for fall, introduces TCU Connected Campus initiative**

Texas Christian University Chancellor Victor J. Boschini, Jr. announced changes today to the university’s fall 2020 semester calendar to help protect the health and safety of the campus community. The semester will begin Aug. 17, a week earlier than originally planned, and end the on-campus portion of the semester Nov. 24. The final deadline for grade submissions, graduate student defenses and other project work will be Dec. 10\. 

“As an organization that employs and cares for so many, we must plan responsibly, deliberate with transparency, and make the best decisions for our future,” Chancellor Boschini said. “Our goal in altering the fall 2020 calendar is to reduce non-essential travel over the holidays and minimize time on campus during peak flu and cold season. This also allows students to return home before Thanksgiving and enjoy an extended winter break with their families.” 

The change is one of several proactive actions TCU is making to respond to the global pandemic while preparing to welcome students back to campus Aug. 17. Further information regarding health and safety measures for students, faculty and staff will be announced later in June, which includes plans for physical distancing, use of larger classrooms and outdoor spaces, enhanced cleaning protocols and residence hall capacity. 

“In the final analysis each member of the TCU community is first and foremost personally responsible for their health and well-being,” Chancellor Boschini said. “As such they should always use good judgment in any and every activity they undertake. This is a personal responsibility which is assumed of everyone in this community.” 

The university welcomed [Phase 1 employees back to campus May 26](/news/2020/tcu-shares-initial-return-to-campus-guidance-for-employees.php), as part of the Return to Campus plan. In it, the university outlines initial personal health and safety expectations for employees with an emphasis on personal responsibility and using good judgement, as well as enhanced cleaning protocols and physical distancing for workplace scenarios. 

“We are creating a new way forward, and absolutely cannot wait to have our students on campus in August,” Chancellor Boschini said.  “As I have said before, they are the heartbeat of TCU, and we are ready to welcome them to their home away from home.” 

**TCU Connected Campus**

The university introduced today the “[TCU Connected Campus](/connected-campus/index.php)” – an initiative to address safety and prepare for and reimagine what the approaching school year may look like for the Horned Frog family as the global pandemic evolves. 

The microsite outlines the university’s commitment to the student experience and is based on four key pillars: Academic Excellence, with added agility; Student Support, to meet the physical, spiritual and mental health needs of our students; Student Experience, helping students forge connective bonds that nurture them on and off campus; and Campus Readiness, which will guide TCU through a safe return and on-campus instruction. 

The key to the Connected Campus is the personalized attention for which TCU is known. This takes place in the classroom led by high-quality expert faculty and in the myriad programs and activities led by Student Affairs. TCU is committed to supporting its students, both virtually and on campus. 

Further, the initiative ensures that TCU will deliver the same high-quality instruction both in person and online. Learn more about [TCU Connected Campus](/connected-campus/index.php). 
