---
title: How will teaching take place in the 2020/21 academic year?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  http://www.exeter.ac.uk/coronavirus/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-exeter
---
The University remains committed to protecting the health and safety of our students, colleagues and communities and ensuring the best possible teaching and learning experience throughout the next academic year.  

Social distancing and other restrictions may continue to be in place in September and beyond. Therefore we are a planning for a range of scenarios for the next academic year, which include both online and face to face learning, depending on government guidance at the time. 

All of our departments will deliver their portfolio of programmes flexibly – whether fully online, on-campus where possible, or a mix of the two through blended learning. This also means delivering programmes in an accessible manner, with the ability to switch smoothly between delivery modes as circumstances dictate.  

Not only will this allow us to continue to deliver excellent teaching and learning, regardless of external circumstances, it also fully aligns with our Education Strategy 2019-25. This highlights the need to capitalise on digital transformation to support learning and teaching, while ensuring it continues to support inclusion, diversity and wellbeing. 

In relation to our campuses, we are committed to doing everything possible to enable us to welcome new and returning students to the University campuses for the start of the autumn term. The start of term will be 21st September for undergraduates and 12th October for Taught Postgraduates (further information for postgraduate students will follow). Please note that start dates for programmes in the College of Medicine and Health vary, including by year of study; specific advice regarding these programmes will follow from the College.
