---
title: Study and learning from September 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-17
link: >-
  https://www.cardiff.ac.uk/coronavirus/current-students
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-cardiff
---
It will be necessary to look at new and innovative ways to deliver the Cardiff University experience without compromising our public health requirements. Our approach to learning and teaching therefore needs to be flexible and adaptable to ensure that you continue to receive the high-quality learning experience that will help you succeed.

Large lectures will not take place on campus so we will continue with engaging and enhanced online learning activities and classes, together with on-campus teaching and learning. Where social distancing requirements can be met, we are exploring some small-group teaching on campus, such as tutorials or clinical, studio and laboratory sessions. A dedicated team is currently reworking our buildings to maximise the space given over to teaching so that we can deliver as much learning on-site as possible.

We are also considering how to open our libraries to allow students and researchers to access resources that are not available online – where we can provide safe study space we will.

#### Your feedback

Through this process, we are consulting with students about their experience of this way of studying and building on their feedback in the course materials that are being prepared now.

Current students will soon receive an invitation to complete a short survey so you can contribute directly to shaping our education provision in the new academic session. We are also working with the Students’ Union looking at other aspects of student life for 2020/21.

#### Updating students

Our plan is to contact students in mid-August to confirm all arrangements to help you prepare for the start of the new year. This will also extend to changes to the curriculum that we may need to make in response to coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
