---
title: Update on response to pandemic for PGRs sent 5 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
Update on response to coronavirus pandemic for PGRs, sent 5 June 2020

Dear postgraduate researchers,

We are writing to update on you our response to the coronavirus pandemic, and in particular on the development of our planning for the rest of this academic year and the beginning of the next, including the logistics of a safe return to campus (including the resumption of research on site).

Our over-riding priority is to ensure that we provide a safe working environment for all members of the University community. As far as is consistent with this priority, we are working to enable research on campus to resume as quickly as possible. We are following a phased process for partial re-opening of laboratories to enable research activities under Covid-19 restrictions. The UK Government has set out guidelines for working safely in laboratories and our principles are consistent with these.

At the present time, we are asking all staff and postgraduate researchers to continue to work from home where possible. Where it is not possible to conduct research at home, for example where access to laboratories and facilities is essential, we are taking a phased approach to re-opening of these.

The order in which facilities re-open is being determined through an assessment of research priorities, which will include PhD research where there is no scope for costed extensions and where laboratory access is essential for completion of the PhD. You do not need to do anything to flag your need for access at this stage: the needs of PGRs are being factored into all discussions with Faculties and Schools about the reopening process.

We expect that some research facilities will start to re-open in the second half of June. Further phasing will then occur through summer, with an expectation that all on-campus research facilities will be open by the end of September. Your Faculty Graduate Schools will be in touch with you to let you know when facilities or laboratories in your research area will be reopening.

To assist those PGRs who are continuing to work remotely, we will be starting to allow time-limited one-off visits to campus to collect equipment to assist comfortable, healthy and efficient homeworking. This will be overseen at the School level, and you should contact your supervisor(s) in the first instance if you feel that you need to make a one-off visit to campus to collect equipment or materials that you need for your research.

We have agreed that fieldwork may resume in locations in England from 15 June, subject to certain conditions and the satisfactory completion of risk assessments. Overnight stays will not be permitted. Resumption of fieldwork in the other nations of the UK will depend on decisions by devolved Governments. International fieldwork – and international travel generally – will not be permitted for the foreseeable future. If you would like to undertake fieldwork in England, please talk to your supervisor(s) in the first instance, as they will be responsible for completing the necessary risk assessments with you.

Please note that your safety is our first priority. This means that even if you are allowed to return to campus and/or conduct fieldwork, you are not obliged to do so if your personal circumstances (e.g. underlying health conditions) make it risky for you to do so. If you are given permission to return to campus but feel that your personal circumstances make it unsafe for you to do so at the present time, please inform your Faculty Graduate School.

We understand that this continues to be a period of great challenge and uncertainty for our entire university community and we would like to thank you all for your continued effort, perseverance and understanding, often in the face of unprecedented personal and professional challenges. 

With best wishes,

Lisa Roberts
Deputy VC (Research and Innovation)
 
Claire Honess
Dean of the Doctoral College