---
title: Systemwide update from President Joan Gabel on upcoming Board of Regents meeting, Fall 2020 academic planning, and FY21 budget update
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xNzCeGKVEO4nfjpdsyNv4l7Y4mVijq0L/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff,

Yesterday was emotional for many of us and today—and in the weeks ahead—there are tough questions that we must answer together as a community. There are no shortcuts. We must move forward with a commitment to take action that leverages our diversity, research, teaching, and service missions to advance equity and to promote healing.

Many of you watched yesterday’s memorial service for George Floyd and heard, among other moving statements, a call for universities to create a scholarship in his honor. We have answered that call. Click here for more information or to donate( https://makingagift.umn.edu/give/fund.html?id=23573 ) to this systemwide scholarship fund. We will be announcing additional initiatives and steps in the coming days.

Amidst this challenging time, the regular work of the University continues. Today, the docket materials for the June 11-12 Board of Regents meetings were posted online( https://regents.umn.edu/june-2020-board-regents-meeting ). I wanted to take this opportunity to update you on several important items in those materials, including on our proposed status for Fall 2020 and the FY21 budget proposal. Please note that none of these issues will be considered final until we receive feedback and action on them by the Board.

Fall 2020 Plans

Understandably, many of you have asked about our plans for Fall semester. We will brief the Board on Thursday morning on our recommendation that the University open for in-person instruction and on-campus experiences this Fall( https://regents.umn.edu/sites/regents.umn.edu/files/2020-06/docket-mis-june2020.pdf ).

The Fall 2020 Scenarios Advisory Team( https://provost.umn.edu/covid19-response/fall-2020-scenarios-advisory-team ) has invited many people and perspectives into its work. It has consulted extensively with state public health experts and those within our institution. It has also welcomed broad input from the University community, including through shared governance groups. Considering all of the input and the best practices that are emerging from other organizations across the country—within higher ed and beyond—we have prepared extensive plans to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and enhance the safety and health of our students, faculty, and staff.

Our plans call for accommodations in residence halls, dining facilities, and common spaces, and the scheduling of instruction to promote physical distancing. In addition, we will implement rigorous sanitization and cleaning practices, recommended mask usage, and contingencies and protocols for anyone in our community who may become ill and those with whom they have been in close contact. Above all else, our plans allow for flexibility, so that we may adapt to changing public health conditions, recognize variations among our five campuses, and ensure accommodations for individual health concerns or other challenges.

For all of our campuses and colleges, Fall semester will include alternative format and multi-modal classes when the spaces available on our campuses do not allow for physical distancing to reduce the spread of COVID-19. We also will have some classes in the evenings, and more classes scheduled on Saturdays, to limit the number of classes occurring in a compressed time period in a given building. Finally, the in-person portion of the Fall semester will conclude by the Thanksgiving Break, so that when students leave campus for the holiday weekend they do not need to return. If instruction or classwork remains after Thanksgiving, it will be provided in an alternative format, as will final exams. The proposed start and end dates for each campus are being discussed by appropriate governance bodies and will be presented during the Board meeting next week.

We know that public health conditions will evolve between now and the end of the summer, and likely during our Fall semester. Our recommendations provide for adaptability in these circumstances to adjust in the moment while still continuing our important, mission-driven work with the high level of excellence that we all expect.

While much planning remains to be done, we have made real progress. I realize that you have many questions and there is still uncertainty about what lies ahead. We will continue to be transparent about our intentions and plans, and we will seek input and provide you with further details as soon as they become available. We look forward to welcoming our new and returning students back to our campuses this Fall.

FY21 Budget Update

At the May Board meeting, we presented our COVID Adjusted Budget (CAB) for FY21. We anticipate the Board will take action on this proposed balanced budget next week( https://regents.umn.edu/sites/regents.umn.edu/files/2020-06/docket-fin-june2020.pdf ). As we have previously detailed, this budget relies on a number of assumptions with respect to the pandemic, our enrollment on all campuses, and other variables that reflect our best analysis. But as you know, this year there are many factors beyond our control so we must do things differently than we usually do.

Full details on any proposed furloughs and temporary pay cuts, as well as the first and second budget contingency measures, are expected next week. All are subject to Board of Regents approval.

In Closing

There are other items that the Board will review and discuss next week, but these items mentioned above are particularly timely, and I wanted to personally notify you about them.

The events of the last three months, and in particular of the last 11 days, have only reinforced the role that we can play, not just as an institution of higher education, but as one of America’s leading research universities advancing the communities we serve. Our land-grant heritage is a commitment, lived every day, to ensure that our work benefits Minnesotans and facilitates a just society. Now, more than ever, we must come together to fulfill that commitment and be a catalyst for change.

Please be healthy, safe, and well.

With warmest wishes,
Joan Gabel