---
title: Updates on Fall 2021 ACT/SAT Requirements, Virtual Summer 2020 Pre-College and Fall 2020 Pre-Orientation Programs
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-01
link: >-
  https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-stevens
---
**To** : The Stevens Community   
**From** : Marybeth Murphy, Vice President for Enrollment Management and Student Affairs   
**Date** : June 1, 2020   
**Subject** : Updates on Fall 2021 ACT/SAT Requirements, Virtual Summer 2020 Pre-College and Fall 2020 Pre-Orientation Programs

The COVID-19 pandemic has had an impact on the availability of testing options for many high school students applying for admission for Fall 2021 and has also required that we reimagine how we offer our Summer 2020 Pre-College and Fall 2020 Pre-Orientation programs. Below is an update on these topics.

 ** Fall 2021 Admission for 1st Year Students: Test Optional  **

The Covid-19 pandemic has led to SAT/ACT testing date cancellations, making it difficult for many students to take the exams. Students who are able to take the exams are doing so under unusual circumstances, including measures taken for to adhere to public health directives. Therefore, in an effort to support access to our university, Stevens Institute of Technology will suspend the SAT/ACT test score requirement for one year and become test optional, to the extent possible, for Fall 2021 first year student applicants.

The test optional plan will require applicants to indicate on their application if they will submit test scores. Those who choose to do so will have the opportunity to self-report test scores on their application and then officially submit test scores from the testing agency upon enrollment. If test scores are submitted, they will be used in a holistic review of the student’s application. 

The test optional plan does not eliminate the need for demonstrated language proficiency. Non-native English-speaking students will still be required to submit results from an English language proficiency exam (TOEFL, IELTS, PTE, SAT EBRW or Duolingo).

Additional information is available [ online ](https://www.stevens.edu/admissions/undergraduate-admissions/how-apply/first-year-students) .

 ** Virtual Summer 2020 Pre-College Program  **

The Office of Pre-College programs is happy to announce we will be offering select summer programs online. These virtual programs will allow students to participate in a unique academic experience with our Stevens faculty and a chance to meet and work with current Stevens undergraduate students. We will be offering five, one-week programs in Business Explorer, Cybersecurity (Beginner), Cybersecurity (Advanced), Introduction to Coding, Engineering Bootcamp, and one, two-week program in Intermediate Computer Science. Please visit [ Stevens Virtual Pre-College Programs ](https://www.stevens.edu/admissions/pre-college-programs/summer-2020-virtual-pre-college-programs "https://www.stevens.edu/admissions/pre-college-programs/summer-2020-virtual-pre-college-programs")  for more information.

 ** Fall 2020 Pre-Orientation Program for Incoming Undergraduates  **

Stevens has decided to pause the registration process for the Pre-Orientation Program, which had been scheduled to begin on August 23. Our Student Life team is examining the program and reimagining how we can provide an engaging and exciting program, while also ensuring the health and safety of our students and staff and abiding by guidance from the State of New Jersey and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). We expect to finalize plans for Pre-Orientation by early July. Please be assured that students who have already registered and paid for the Pre-Orientation Program will receive a refund if the program is not held as planned.

Thank you for your attention to these important matters. 
