---
title: When should I return to Liverpool?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-29
link: >-
  https://news.liverpool.ac.uk/coronavirus-advice-and-guidance/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-liv.ac
---
The date by which you will need to return to Liverpool to begin your studies may differ slightly, depending on whether you are arriving from the UK or overseas. This is because, based on the most recent update from the UK Government, non-UK based students may need to plan to return earlier for a 14 day ‘quarantine’ period. Although we cannot be certain that this measure will still be in place when you join us in a few months’ time, in the interest of helping you have adequate time to plan, we wanted to make you aware of current Government policy and our plans to support you with it.

It is important to say that the UK Government’s approach to ‘quarantine’ is different from that of many other countries. On arrival, current Government advice indicates that you will be asked to complete a form providing your contact and travel information before being asked to self-isolate in your planned accommodation for 14 days. This means you will be able to self-isolate either in University halls or in your own private accommodation, depending on which you have booked for the coming year.

This means that (apart from the clinical programmes previously mentioned):

 **UK-based undergraduates** will be welcomed on campus when hybrid teaching resumes but prior to this will take part in the university-wide Foundation Week from 5-9 October.

 **Overseas undergraduates** **who are booked to live in University halls** will be welcomed back and move into halls between 19 and 25 September to allow for the ‘quarantine’ period. During self-isolation, we will be here to support you with accessing supplies. You will also have check-in chats and the Halls Life Student Experience team and Student Support will be on hand for further support. Study and support materials will be made available during this time.

 **Overseas undergraduates living in private accommodation** will also be welcomed back to Liverpool between 19 and 25 September to allow for the ‘quarantine’ period. We are working closely with landlords in the private sector to clarify arrangements they have in place for supporting you during this time and we are also in the process of working with local partners to establish plans for support in accessing supplies. You will also have check-in chats and Student Support will be on hand to support you through this period.
