---
title: Return to on-campus work is delayed until further notice
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-31
link: >-
  https://covid19.illinois.edu/massmail-announcements/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-illinois
---
**Return to on-campus work is delayed until further notice**   
May 31, 2020 8:41 PM 

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

As you know, in many communities around the nation and in our state, the reactions to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer have moved beyond peaceful protest. Today, here in our local community, we are experiencing vandalism and looting.

We believe this unrest and disruption is likely to continue for an unknown period of time and in an abundance of caution for the welfare of all members of our campus community, all faculty, staff and students are to continue their current remote-working arrangements until further notice. Please do not return to campus unless you have specifically received permission to do so from your supervisor.

Faculty, staff and student workers involved in areas with specialized considerations such as those involved in essential maintenance of our facilities or working in research labs and facilities will receive further detailed guidance from your unit administrator this evening and throughout the duration of this situation. If you do not receive any new guidance, you should not return to campus.

The right of members of our community to assemble, protest and raise their voices is one of the fundamental values of this university. And as these next uncertain days unfold, we want to do all we can to ensure that our students, faculty and staff are free and safe to choose how they want to face this difficult time.

As we expressed yesterday, these are days when the well-being of our community depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

Robert J. Jones  
Chancellor 
