---
title: Information for Students
subtitle: I am not able to fully progress my research at this time – will I get additional time at the end?
date: 2020-05-29
link: >-
  http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/coronavirus-faqs/information-for-students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qub
---
PGR students who were registered during the 2019-20 academic year (excluding students starting a PhD programme after 23 March 2020), in all years of study and including those on thesis only status, will be eligible to for 3 additional months of registration (6 months for part-time students). **This additional time will not incur additional tuition fees or other charges.**

Research students do not need to do anything now to secure the additional 3 months. If required, this time will be added with no additional fees, in line with existing School Postgraduate Research Committee (SPRC) procedures. This considers a student’s registration status at the point of coming to the end of their normal period of studies as defined by [Study Regulations for Research Degree Programmes 4.3](http://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/GeneralRegulations/StudyRegulations/StudyRegulationsforResearchDegreeProgrammes/#d.en.717765) (e.g. For PhD student 3 years (FT) or 6 years (PT)). For funded students awarded a studentship of more than three years duration the additional 3 month fee free period should be applied immediately after the funding end date, if necessary.

  * **What if I was already on Thesis Only status at the point of lockdown?**  
  
If you were already on thesis-only status at the start of lockdown, you have a 3 additional months of registration at the end of your 12 month period (15 months total).  
  

  * **What if I have changed status since the end of March, and already paid a fee?**  
  
If you have come to the end of your funding or changed status to Thesis Only since 23rd March, and already paid for your registration, then please contact your School. They will make arrangements with Student Registry ([pgr.records@qub.ac.uk](mailto:pgr.records@qub.ac.uk)) to put in place the 3 months without charges, refunding payments where appropriate.  
  

  * **What if I was registered at the point of lockdown (23 March), but have since taken a Temporary Withdrawal (Leave of Absence)?**  
  
If you were registered at the start of lockdown, but have since that time taken a temporary withdrawal, then you are eligible for the three months without fees when you reach the end of your funding or normal period of studies.  
  

  * **What if I was on a Temporary Withdrawal (Leave of Absence) before lockdown?**  
  
If you registered for the 2019-20 academic year, and have since that time taken a temporary withdrawal, you are eligible for the three months without fees when you reach the end of your funding or normal period of studies.  
  

  * **What if I am on a taught component of a professional / integrated doctorate?**  
  
If you are currently completing taught elements of professional / integrated doctorates, provisions to mitigate disruption are made within the taught regulations.



**You may be in a situation not covered by any of the options below. If you get in touch with your School, they will work with Student Registry and Postgraduate Awards to determine how this applies to your situation.**
