---
title: Returning to campus in September
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-11
link: >-
  https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/coronavirus/communications/archive-of-communications.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-nottingham.ac
---
Dear students,

As promised in my message at the end of May, I am writing to share more detailed information on our arrangements to welcome you back to campus in September.


Life at university, as much as everywhere else around the globe, will feel different for a while, however, your time as a student at Nottingham will be enriching and exciting nonetheless. Nottingham has successfully welcomed more than 5,000 students back to our campus in Ningbo, China and we are using that experience to inform how we approach things in the UK.


All of us at the University look forward to your return, as both students of the University and citizens of Nottingham. We are committed to helping you to keep safe and ensuring that you make the most of the opportunities that studying for a Nottingham degree offers. We know that, in turn, you will support your University community and neighbours in the city by following all government guidelines and local safety measures.  


I hope you will find the latest information useful. Your Schools will contact you over the coming weeks to provide more details specific to your programme and teaching arrangements.


Our plans to welcome you back to campus will continue to develop as new government guidelines and regulations emerge, and we will contact you regularly with further information and any changes to our approach.


In the meantime, may I wish you and your friends and families every good health – I look forward to welcoming you back to the University in September.

Professor Shearer West's signature
Professor Shearer West

Vice-Chancellor

University of Nottingham

Registration and Welcome
All students need to register online with the University at the start of their course, and again at the start of each academic session. You will be asked to register online via email at the end of August. Returning students are not required to register in person.  


We are working with the Students’ Union to plan an exciting programme of Welcome and Refreshers events and activities and will share more detail with you on these later in the summer.

Moving around campus safely
Social distancing measures will be in place across our indoor and outdoor spaces including dedicated entrances and exits, one-way and queuing systems, and distance markers that have become a familiar feature in other areas of national life.


Our buildings will be cleaned and disinfected regularly and additional handwashing and sanitising facilities will be provided. Personal protective equipment (PPE) will be provided where it is required in specific circumstances, for example clinical teaching and research facilities.  

Health and welfare
We know that alongside the excitement of returning to University, some of you might be apprehensive about leaving home or mixing with large groups of people again. Our established health and wellbeing services remain available to support you with your health and to discuss any concerns you might have.


Your School can support you with any welfare issues you wish to discuss with them. Get in touch with your local Support and Wellbeing Officer at any time – they are ready to help.


A wealth of help and advice to assist you in maintaining your physical and mental health is available on our HealthyU webpages. You can also access our mental health practitioners and self-help resources via our University Counselling Services.



Do remember to register at the Cripps Health Centre for General Practitioner and dental services on University Park.

Teaching and learning
For the majority of our students, term will begin on Monday 21 September, with teaching starting the following week. You will be contacted directly by your School if you have an alternative start date.


We will use a blended approach to deliver your teaching, using a combination of digital and in-person sessions to ensure you have every opportunity to engage with our world-leading academics and your peers. To enable social distancing, we will schedule small groups in our larger teaching spaces and take steps to minimise the numbers of students moving through corridors at any one time.


We will use educational technologies to deliver lecture content, with interactive opportunities to discuss topics and ask questions of your lecturers during or after the session.



We will use systems that you are already familiar with such as Moodle, MS Teams and Engage, our lecture capture system, and always focus on using teaching methods that give you the best opportunity to participate.


If you are on a programme of study which includes optional module choices, your School will contact you before online module enrolment opens later in the summer to let you know more about the modules available to you.



As always, your personal tutor will be a key point of both academic and pastoral support - in person, online or over the phone. Your personal tutor details are listed in the profile section of the MyNottingham web application. Do get in touch with them if you have not already done so.

Accommodation
Our Accommodation, Off-Campus and Students’ Union teams look forward to welcoming you back to Nottingham and helping you to feel settled and safe in your home – whether it is on campus or in the city.


We are working closely with the city and county councils, and landlords’ associations, to help bring students back to the city safely and efficiently. Future communications will share more detail on this.



Many of you will be coming back to the city to new homes and households in private rented accommodation. Please consider your new neighbours when making plans to come back to the city – some of whom will be isolating to protect their health and that of their families.


To minimise impact on the local community, we ask that you stagger arrival times with your housemates, so that only one of you is moving in at once. We also ask that you only bring one other person to help you move in, where possible, to reduce the risks to your housemates and your new neighbours.



Students moving into campus accommodation such as halls of residence will receive an email from our Accommodation Team by mid-July. This will share more detail on moving back to campus, cleaning processes and social distancing arrangements.


If you are moving in to off-campus halls accommodation in September, your provider will be in touch over the summer with more information about moving in to your new home.

Student Services and experience
While things will feel different, we are working hard to ensure you have as many opportunities as possible to experience what Nottingham has to offer – from sports and societies to exploring our beautiful campuses and the broader city.


We expect our sports facilities to be open to students for the start of session in September, with the outdoor pitches and courts and indoor gyms available for your use, supported by social distancing measures, to ensure your safety as you work out. The Department of Sport’s Health and Wellbeing Hub has some great material to support you through the summer, including virtual fitness sessions.


Lakeside Arts, our gallery and arts centre, is expected to resume its programme in the autumn, and will also put on its events and cultural activities in new spaces such as live-streaming performances on the Portland screen at the Students’ Union.


The University and the Students’ Union is working with societies and student groups to develop safe and exciting opportunities – including virtual and physical activities. Visit the SU website for up-to-date contact details for all clubs and societies.



We expect our libraries to open for the start of session, offering book loan services, access to study materials and a range of quiet study spaces supported by social distancing measures. IT Services and support remain available via the IT Service Desk and virtual Smart Bar and we expect in-person services to resume from September.



Our Student Services teams will support you throughout your time at University. They are currently available online and by phone – including video chat – and a number of Student Service Centres will, we expect, reopen on campus for September for transactions that must take place in person – like checking original documents.