---
title: Systemwide update from President Joan Gabel on the resumption of in-person instruction for the Fall 2020 semester
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-12
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1t4virOAvAN4iBk5-UozmJs1XlBavbuSh/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff, 

We continue to process the tragic death of George Floyd and how we must lead efforts to eradicate systemic racism in our University and in society as a whole. At a special meeting of the Senate Consultative Committee on June 18, several proposals that have been submitted from across our community dealing with safety, security, discrimination, and policing issues on campus will be presented. We are committed to engaged active listening about all aspects of campus safety with representative voices. We also recognize our responsibility to do more and do better and to ensure that every member of our University family feels safe and supported. 

We also continue our planning and work in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, much of which culminated this week in the review and action taken by the University’s Board of Regents today. I sincerely thank everyone across our University family for your strong voices and insights that strengthened our planning and policies as we work to recover stronger. Below are a series of updates and highlights from this week’s Board of Regents meeting: 

July 

Consistent with the Governor’s executive order, the Twin Cities will initiate “July-mester”—courses that begin as early as July 6 that will provide learning experiences that comply with current public health guidance, be primarily hands on, and support lower densities. More information can be found online at z.umn.edu/JulyTerm (Twin Cities campus login required). Please check the website regularly. We will add new courses as they become available. 

Fall 2020 

The University will resume in-person instruction and re-open residence halls, dining facilities, and other campus services for Fall semester, but things will look different in light of physical distancing and other public health guidance. Here is what you can expect: 
• In-person instruction, residence and dining halls, and other public spaces on campus will incorporate adjusted room capacities to permit physical distancing. 
• Courses will be offered in a portfolio of modalities, including in-person, fully distanced, hybrid, “HyFlex,” and others. The mix of approaches will allow us to accommodate individuals at greater risk of complications from COVID-19 or who can otherwise not be present on campus, while helping them continue their academic progress and success. 
• Enhanced cleaning and sanitizing practices will occur throughout all of our facilities. 
• We will ask for your commitment to a “Stop the Spread of COVID-19” campaign. 
• Personal health monitoring and a system of testing, isolation, contact tracing and quarantine will be implemented on each campus. 
• Each campus will adjust its academic calendar so it can conclude all in-person instruction by the Wednesday before Thanksgiving. The remainder of the semester’s instruction and finals will be conducted remotely. The Fall term start dates are: 
o Crookston: Aug. 25, 2020 
o Duluth: Aug. 31, 2020  
o Morris: Aug. 19, 2020 
o Rochester and Twin Cities: Sept. 8, 2020  

As a next step, faculty and staff will begin to develop instructional plans for each class and safety plans for each building, based on guidance from the Fall 2020 Scenarios Advisory Team. More detail will follow from campuses, colleges, and units as it becomes available. 

The spine of our plan is flexibility—to accommodate people’s needs, to provide an excellent learning experience, and to adapt to demands of public health conditions and other challenges to protect the safety of all students, faculty, and staff. See future updates at z.umn.edu/return-to-campus. 

Ending Extended Reduced Operations 

Nearly three months ago, we moved our entire institution into Extended Reduced Operations, a status consistent with the Governor’s executive orders. As the Governor has relaxed restrictions, and as we have begun using the University’s Sunrise Plan to carefully restart our operations, we will end Extended Reduced Operations on June 22. 

The change will allow us to gradually reopen more facilities and welcome back maintenance and other staff necessary to support University work, particularly in light of the enhanced cleaning and hygiene protocols we have put in place. This shift does not mean that all staff and faculty should immediately return to worksites. The Governor’s executive orders still say that if you can work from home you must continue to do so.

 As a result of this change: 
• Employees without work they can do remotely will continue to receive pay until further notice, as outlined in Administrative Policy: University State of Emergency - Human Resources Implications. These employees may propose on-site work under the Sunrise Plan, as well as on-site or distanced work through the Talent Share program. 
• The pay augmentation associated with this operational status for essential on-campus employees will end. 

University Travel 

Consistent with CDC recommendations, the University has modified our travel policy in the following ways, effective June 15. 

• Domestic and Canadian vehicle travel: We are ending travel restrictions for staff or faculty using personal or fleet services vehicles. Please follow CDC recommendations to lower your COVID-19 risk. Federal restrictions regarding car travel to Canada can be found here. 
• Domestic Air Travel: We will begin allowing domestic air travel, however; we continue to discourage any air travel unless it is absolutely necessary for University purposes. 
• International Air Travel: We have extended the ban on international air travel through August 15 and will update this decision by mid-July. 

Events at University Facilities 

Governor Walz issued Executive Order 20-74 on June 10, which provides specific guidance for event venues. We have begun working with University event venues systemwide to develop safety plans so that they may begin hosting some events in the coming weeks. This is an important development for many of our venues that rely on events for revenue. 

Recreation Centers on All Campuses 

All University recreation centers are in the process of reopening, consistent with Executive Order 20-74 and guidance from the Minnesota Department of Employment pertaining to gyms, studios, and fitness centers. Be on the lookout for more information from your local facilities soon. 

Undergraduate Students on All Campuses 

Effective June 15, undergraduate student workers and researchers in any University facility may apply to return in collaboration with their supervisor. Their return must be voluntary and students, like all University staff and faculty, must follow all relevant personal hygiene requirements as appropriate for their work environment. Please check with your supervisors for more information and the Sunrise plans outlining safety approaches.  

Systemwide Strategic Plan 

The University’s Systemwide Strategic Plan was approved by the Board of Regents, and is a reflection of broad consultation with students, faculty, and staff, as well as with alumni supporters and partners in the Minnesota Legislature and statewide. As a next step, we will initiate a process at the July Board retreat to review and refresh the University of Minnesota Progress Card, also known as our Maroon / Gold measures. This dashboard will focus on strategic but measurable outcomes aligned to the Systemwide Strategic Plan’s action items. We will engage in consultation and seek your input around these measures as the efforts evolve. 

FY21 COVID-Adjusted Budget (CAB) Finalized 

The CAB budget for FY21 was approved by the Regents today. We have had to make a number of assumptions about how the pandemic may continue to affect the University—more assumptions than we would normally make. The volatility in these assumptions has led us to initiate a temporary pay cut and furlough plan for some University employees. The first half of the plan will begin in July and continue through the end of this calendar year. At that time, if our budget outlook is improved in a number of key areas, the temporary pay cuts and furlough plan will be discontinued. However, if additional savings are necessary, the second half of the plan would be implemented between January 1 and June 30, 2021. The Board also reviewed an early retirement plan option for additional cost savings and we plan to formally present that option to the Board for final approval in July. Details on these plans will be available from the Office of Human Resources in the next week. 

The Board also reviewed and approved a second set of principles to guide the remaining $18 million allocation of the Federal CARES Act institutional funds. These funds are available to assist our campuses with the financial impacts of COVID-19.

In Closing 

It is a busy time and an intense time for our University, but I am grateful for the extensive effort and honest perspectives that have been shared by our students, faculty, and staff. Our approaches to all of the challenges ahead of us are better informed and implemented in more representative ways by engaging broadly and hearing perspectives and expectations from those most affected. We have said from the beginning that safety is our highest priority but we must be open to what it means for everyone to feel safe. In that spirit, please be healthy, safe, and well. 

With warmest wishes, 
Joan Gabel