---
title: All student email, Friday 12 June 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-12
link: >-
  https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/All-student-email-12062020.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-birmingham.ac
---
Dear student

In today’s update, we have news for final year undergraduate students on the date for receiving results and your degree classification.  We also share details of how you can get Library Services support 24/7 with a new live chat service available from today.

  
LinkedIn Learning remains available for careers courses and the Alumni Leadership Mentoring Programme is still open for applications until Sunday. In addition, you can join a webinar launching a policy commission that aims to improve the wellbeing of people across Europe.   
  
Today’s updates includes:

  * Information for final year UG students
  * 24/7 Library chat support
  * LinkedIn Learning from Careers
  * European universities’ alliance COVID-19 policy commission launch



### Information for final year undergraduate students

As we are now getting closer to the end of this unusual summer term we have important information about results and graduation.  
  
Given all the disruption to exams, the delays in the submission of some coursework, the need to build new mitigations into our degree algorithms and the challenges of establishing exam boards, it is taking longer than usual to process results. We are now pleased to announce that we are aiming to publish your results on  **Tuesday 30 June**. You will be able to access your own results online via the student portal. If we anticipate any delays to that date, for example where we encounter circumstances beyond our control in running the exam boards in a specific programme, we will be in contact with you immediately.  
  
We are now finalising our exciting plans for your virtual graduation celebrations in July and will have more details coming soon.Over the next two weeks, and before the end of term, we will set out more details and dates for our celebration activities, when you will be able to access your certificates online and when we will be posting these out to you.  
 

### 24/7 Library chat support

From today, our [Just Ask](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/as/libraryservices/library/contact/justask.aspx) enquiry service will be available 24/7, meaning you'll be able to chat with a librarian day or night, any day of the week.   
  
Our Library Services team will be answering questions from Monday – Friday (9.00-6.00pm) and Saturday – Sunday (10.00am-12.00noon). At all other times, the service is operated by our international librarian partners.  
 

### LinkedIn Learning from Careers

It is important that you take full advantage of your LinkedIn Learning subscription. You don’t need to set up an external LinkedIn profile to access LinkedIn Learning, but in the challenging employment market of the future, LinkedIn can be a useful way of connecting you with employers and job opportunities.  
  
There are a number of employability related courses for you to access via LinkedIn Learning. Remember, LinkedIn Learning is free for all University of Birmingham students. You can get unlimited access to 13,000+ expert-led, online video courses that will help broaden your knowledge and enhance your academic, technology related, and creative skills. It’s simple and easy to use and all content is available on and offline via your desktop, tablet and mobile.  
  
Visit for [LinkedIn Learning](http://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/linkedinlearning) for more information.  
  
The [Alumni Leadership Mentoring Programme](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/as/employability/careers/mentoring/mentoring-schemes/almp.aspx) is still open for one more weekend for applications from undergraduate penultimate years and 3rd and 4th year medics.  The scheme will match you with some of our most successful alumni in sectors such as healthcare, social policy and creative industries. The deadline for applications is Sunday 14 June.  
 

### European universities’ alliance COVID-19 policy commission launch

Wednesday 17 June  
1.00pm (UK time)  
  
Experts from the European University of Well-being (EUniWell) collaboration of European universities, including Birmingham, are launching a policy commission that aims to improve the wellbeing of people across Europe and beyond living under the shadow of the global coronavirus pandemic.  
  
Researchers from the European University of Well-being (EUniWell) will kick-start the six-month commission with a live one and a half-hour webinar featuring experts from three partner institutions discussing ‘Wellbeing in a COVID World’. The event will be chaired by Stefano Manservisi, former Director-General of the European Commission’s Directorate-General for International Cooperation and Development. People across Europe and the globe are welcome to attend the panel discussion and Q&A.  
  
[Register for the event](https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/inaugural-euniwell-policy-commission-launch-well-being-in-a-covid-world-registration-107810054776).  
  
The event will feature a discussion of how EUniWell can help to boost people’s wellbeing from an expert panel. Participants will have the opportunity to put questions to the panel. EUniWell unites seven top European universities to create research, teaching and policy development partnerships involving 244,000 students and 36,500 staff. Its focus is wellbeing, supporting individual, social and environmental wellbeing in a global setting.  
  
[Find out more](http://www.euniwell.eu/).  
  
  
Best wishes  
Student Communications Team
