---
title: PhD Students
subtitle: Since I am unable to travel, I won’t be able to use my full Research Training and Support Grant (RTSG). Can this be used for other purposes, or can it be carried forward to next year?
date: 2020-06-09
link: >-
  http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/coronavirus-faqs/information-for-students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qub
---
Department for the Economy (DfE) provide an annual RTSG amount (normally £900 for the full year) to their students to assist with incidental expenses related to their research e.g. travel and accommodation costs for a conference or to purchase a laptop.

In the light of the current Covid-19 situation, and with students now having to work from home, the restrictions on the use of RTSG have been eased (for the remainder of this current academic year in the first instance). Reasonable expenses incurred while facilitating home research can now be claimed. They include the following:

  * Desks and chairs to assist comfortable working
  * Printers, print cartridges, paper and other consumables required to undertake your research
  * Registration costs associated with on-line conferences or training opportunities
  * As a contribution towards undertaking the CMI Level 7 Certificate in Strategic Leadership and Management facilitated through the Graduate School (payments can be made now for units to be delivered in 2020-21)



This list is not exhaustive and normal school purchasing protocols continue. In some cases items above can be purchased less expensively through the university procurement system. If you have any queries surrounding RTSG then liaise with your School contact in the first instance or email: pgawards@qub.ac.uk.

Students who receive RTSG as part of a Doctoral Training partnership (DTP) or Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) should contact the relevant administrator for any queries surrounding its use.

Queries have been raised regarding carrying forward RTSG to the next academic year in the light of conference cancellations and travel restrictions. The funding body sets funding conditions which require unspent funds to be returned at the end of the year, which remains the case at this point.
