---
title: PhD Students
subtitle: How do I get the additional time added to my research degree?
date: 2020-06-05
link: >-
  http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/coronavirus-faqs/information-for-students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qub
---
If you are not ready to submit at the end of your normal period of studies (or end of funded period for those funded for more than 3 years), this time will be added with no additional fees, and without the need for you to make a case.

To have this time added, we are using existing procedures relating to progress monitoring. Students who are completing the final year of their normal period of study would discuss their plans to achieve submission with their APR panel. If you are not ready to submit at the end of the normal period of studies, the panel will then recommend to your School Postgraduate Research Committee (SPRC) that you have the 3 months added after your normal period of study (or after your funding completes if this is longer than your normal period of study), and may also be able to indicate whether you would go to Thesis Only after the 3 months, or if your progress would need to be further discussed at that point. The normal period of studies is defined by [Study Regulations for Research Degree Programmes 4.3](http://www.qub.ac.uk/directorates/AcademicStudentAffairs/AcademicAffairs/GeneralRegulations/StudyRegulations/StudyRegulationsforResearchDegreeProgrammes/#d.en.717765) (e.g. For PhD student 3 years (FT) or 6 years (PT)). The SPRC will ensure that the extension is put in place for you with Student Registry.

For students due to complete their normal or extended period of study at a time that does not align to having an Annual Progress Review (e.g. if you have periods of temporary withdrawal or started outside of October, or if you are funded beyond the normal period of study) - if you need the additional 3 months to complete your research, you will need to identify this to your School, normally via your Supervisor. They can ask the SPRC to approve this request and ensure that the extension is put in place for you with Student Registry.
