---
title: Plans for Winter Term and Semester 2, 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-28
link: >-
  https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/coronavirus/information-for-all-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unimelb
---
## Plans for Winter Term and Semester 2, 2020

 **The below information is current as of Thursday 28 May, 2020 and will be updated as further information is confirmed.**

Current students should continue to plan for studies in Semester 2 so that you can progress toward the completion of your course. You are encouraged to consider your Semester 2 subject options in the [Handbook](https://handbook.unimelb.edu.au/search) and can [book a phone appointment for course advice](https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/advice-and-help/stop-1/course-advice-and-enrolment-assistance).

Future students can find information on [Study](https://study.unimelb.edu.au/how-to-apply/covid-19).

Please note that the [Semester 2, 2020 academic calendar](https://students.unimelb.edu.au/your-course/manage-your-course/key-dates) has been adjusted following the changes to Semester 1, 2020 academic calendar.

### Winter term, 2020

Almost all Winter Term subjects will be delivered online, with the limited exceptions of some specialist subjects for specific cohorts which will have on-campus delivery. This list may be updated if additional subjects are approved to have on-campus components.

  * Exclusions

Please note: only eligible students should enrol in the below subjects. If in doubt, contact the [Course Planning](https://slack-redir.net/link?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstudents.unimelb.edu.au%2Fstudent-support%2Fadvice-and-help%2Fstop-1%2Fcourse-advice-and-enrolment-assistance) team. If you are enrolled in these subjects and are unsure what to do, please check the LMS or contact the subject coordinator.

Subject code| Subject name| Study period| Faculty  
---|---|---|---  
  
ANAT40001

| 

Anatomy and Neurosci Research Proj Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences  
  
BCMB40009

| 

Biochemistry Research Project Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences  
  
BIOL90002

| 

Biometry

| 

July

| 

Science  
  
FINA20033

| 

Introduction to Printmaking Processes

| 

June, July

| 

Fine Arts and Music  
  
FINA20035

| 

Drawing with Anatomy

| 

Winter Term, July

| 

Fine Arts and Music  
  
FINA20045

| 

Introduction to Screenprinting

| 

June, July

| 

Fine Arts and Music  
  
MCEN90049

| 

Helicopter Design

| 

Winter Term

| 

Engineering  
  
MIIM40005

| 

Micro & Immuno Research Project Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences  
  
MUSI90169

| 

Opera Performance Practicum 2

| 

July

| 

Fine Arts and Music  
  
PATH40001

| 

Pathology Research Project Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences  
  
PHRM40001

| 

Pharmacology Research Project Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry and Health Sciences  
  
PHYS40005

| 

Physiology Research Project Part 1

| 

June

| 

Medicine, Dentistry &and Health Sciences  
  



### Semester 2, 2020

The University is continuing detailed planning for a phased and partial return to campus. Our plans are informed by the latest government and health advice and will be carefully implemented, with our number one priority being the health, safety and wellbeing of our students, staff and community.

Our intention is to gradually bring back some on campus teaching and learning in Semester 2 where it is safe to do so, with priority given to practical activities and small group teaching with essential face to face elements.  Any face to face teaching or on campus activities will comply with strict public health and physical distancing measures.

We acknowledge that international travel restrictions mean that students who are currently overseas will likely be unable to return to campus in time for the commencement of Semester 2, or possibly at any stage during the semester. Online teaching and assessment will continue as long as necessary for students who are overseas or otherwise unable to return to campus, or if strict physical distancing requirements necessitate online delivery for any or all programs. We are committed to supporting all students to progress through their degrees.

### Returning to campus

Any return to campus will be gradual, phased and be carefully implemented to prioritise health and safety. Public health measures to mitigate the risk of transmission, may limit options for face-to-face teaching, for example limits on class sizes or the number of classes happening in each building at any one time. As such, it is likely that students who are able to return to campus for all or part of Semester 2 will continue learning through mixed-mode delivery with a likely combination of small group classes and some online learning.

The University will establish priorities for the gradual resumption of face-to-face teaching, informed by government requirements and factoring in different student cohort needs, sizes, subject or course progression requirements and teaching and learning formats. We are committed to supporting you to progress through your studies and will advise students as early as possible of transition arrangements.

Assessment methods for all subjects will be evaluated in the first part of Semester 2 to ensure suitable arrangements for all students affected by travel restrictions and to adhere to any public health requirements that may be in place. Any changes will be clearly communicated to students.

Cases of COVID-19 on campus might require a temporary or longer-term cessation of any face-to-face activities that have been taking place. Should this be the case, continuity of teaching and learning will be provided through a return to fully online delivery.

Where possible, opportunities will be provided for students to catch up on missed subjects and subject components (such as placements, for example) to allow students to be on target for timely completion.

Campus operations, including access to buildings and libraries, MUSport and campus retail, may be gradually resumed with decisions informed by physical distancing requirements and the scale and type of activities that will take place on campus.

Study Overseas activity will not be possible in Semester 2 given the likelihood of international travel restrictions being in place for some time.

July Graduations will be postponed with graduands given the opportunity to graduate in absentia or at a later graduation at the end of 2020 or early 2021, should government policy permit this.
