---
title: A message to international students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-16
link: >-
  https://vtnews.vt.edu/articles/2020/06/students-shushok-international.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-vt
---
Dear International Hokies:

I grew up in a small, mostly rural town in Texas. I couldn’t have begun to appreciate the richness and complexity of our big world without a powerful college experience that was shaped beautifully by an international community.

I remember being inspired by the courage of peers who came to study in the United States from China, India, Iran, Russia, and Germany, among many other countries. My interest in learning a new language, understanding myself as a “global citizen,” and traveling the world can be directly traced to a learning environment enriched by international students. I know you’re inspiring the domestic students at Virginia Tech in the very same way.

Virginia Tech’s identity as a global land-grant university resonates in my core. I cannot overstate my gratitude for our international Hokies who enrich and strengthen both our community and education. We are collectively stronger and better because you have made Virginia Tech your home. Without you, our international students, we cannot accomplish our mission, nor thrive to our greatest potential.

While COVID-19 has changed how we engage our campus community, our commitment to you is undeterred. We know the challenges created by COVID-19 are exacerbated for our international students — we will walk alongside you in the most practical ways as you traverse these difficult days.

No matter your question or concern, the [Cranwell International Center](https://international.vt.edu/) stands ready to help and to [address your questions and concerns](https://international.vt.edu/index/faq.html). To simplify and concentrate our support, the Cranwell International Center will become home for all international student services (graduate and undergraduate), including immigration advising on July 1. We are committed to sharing your hopes and your challenges, and we recognize the critical nature of our advocacy and support for your unique needs and circumstances.

As you navigate these next weeks and months, be assured of our unrelenting dedication to your success at Virginia Tech. Please know we’re cheering for you.

With hope and in the spirit of _Ut Prosim_ ,

Frank Shushok Jr.  
Vice President for Student Affairs
