---
title: Will Fall 2020 classes be delivered in person, online, or through some combination of the two?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-06-17
link: >-
  http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus/students
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-gatech
---
We aim to retain as much face-to-face interaction as possible. Georgia Tech classes will be scheduled in one of five modes: 

  * **Residential spread:  **Courses/sections that are residential with social distancing measures in place in the classroom. This is the traditional format that we are treating as the desired option. Because of the limited supply of rooms with adequate capacity to accommodate social distancing, priority for in-person delivery will go to: (a) lab classes, group project classes, senior design classes, and other classes that require interaction with physical projects and equipment in most or all class sessions (b) small discussion classes. 



  * **Remote with limited in-person instruction (hybrid):  ** 



  * **Hybrid hands-on:**  Courses/sections will offer lectures via remote delivery and bring students to campus for hand-on studios and lab activities with social distancing measures in place. 
  * **Hybrid touch points:**  Courses/sections will offer lectures in an online format and will bring students to the classroom several times during the semester for meaningful in-person experiences. 
  * **Hybrid split:**  Courses/sections will offer lectures both in class and through broadcast recordings using classroom technology but will also bring smaller groups of students to the classroom on a predetermined basis with social distancing measures in place. 



  * **Remote:** ** ** Courses/sections that are completely remote and delivered online (e.g., OMSCS courses). 


