---
title: 近期JHU政策汇总
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-24
link: >-
countryCode: us
instituteSlug: us-jhu
---
https://hub.jhu.edu/novel-coronavirus-information/#university-operations

### 博士生可以延期毕业，延期进行资格考，对于拿奖学金的学生，可以申请将学校给的补助延期（申请延期的时长不能超过校园关闭的时长）

4.10号

[查看链接](https://hub.jhu.edu/novel-coronavirus-information/university-messages/supporting-johns-hopkins-phd-students/)

> In some situations, however, you may need a formal extension in completing your degree requirements, such as postponing an exam or defense. Each school has committed to providing a mechanism to request a delay and explain how your academic progress has been specifically impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. These requests must be endorsed by a faculty member who can certify progress up to the point of disruption (e.g., an academic advisor or program director). Importantly, the university’s Doctor of Philosophy Board, which by university policy must approve any exceptions to universitywide time to degree maximums, has committed to honor all extensions approved by the JHU schools in accordance with the above mechanisms.

> Also, we know many of you are concerned about financial support. In a previous communication, we noted that payments to PhD students—such as regular stipends or salaries from their division, training grants, or research grants—would continue from the same funding sources during this period of remote work. Programs that provide funding to students for their duration remain steadfast in that commitment.

### 6.30号之前所有需要现场进行的活动都取消

4.6号发布，4.9号更新


> Remote/online programs have been extended through June 30, and all residential and in-person academic programs are cancelled through June 30. Many of these programs will shift to online/remote delivery; more information about these changes will be provided by the academic divisions.

> All in-person university and third-party events, both on and off campus, are canceled through June 30, including tours, admissions events, athletics events, and alumni events.

> All academic divisions, in consultation with the Provost’s Office, have taken steps to expand the use of pass/fail grading for the spring 2020 term.

> Online and virtual teaching support is being made available for all faculty, lecturers, and TAs.

> Access to all campus buildings is restricted—buildings are locked and require key card swipes for entry or will have a staffed on-site security station.

> The May 2020 universitywide Commencement exercises will be held virtually (all in-person Commencement ceremonies are cancelled). We will work with our divisions and students on plans to gather our graduates together for virtual ceremonies this May and in-person celebrations at a later date.

> University meetings and work activities, even those deemed essential, must be conducted remotely whenever possible, and no in-person meetings or activities may be held with greater than 10 people.

> Nonessential university-sponsored international and domestic travel is suspended.

> All on-campus research is restricted to essential activities only; non-critical laboratory research activities remain suspended until further notice.


### 对本科生的通知

#### 部分被允许留校的本科生，活动范围会受限，只能在宿舍，餐厅，Wolman（取快递的地方）
4.6号更新

#### 住校本科生离校，宿舍征用的安排 ：部分宿舍会被征用，如果被征用，学校会联系学生，打包的行李由学校保存
4.6号


#### 5月份的毕业典礼采取线上模式

### 针对Graduate的一系列政策

3.28号 Update
#### 考虑到学习的困难性，2020Spring的grading mode采用Pass/Fail 这种模式来评分，具体由各division自行决定
3.27
> We recognize that the difficult task of mastering the course material in your field of study is now complicated by the challenges of adapting to a remote learning environment, and that those challenges are not evenly felt by all students. Consequently, all of our divisions, in consultation with the Provost’s Office, have taken steps to expand the use of pass/fail grading this term. Schools are taking somewhat different approaches based on their individual circumstances and the concerns of their students.

> The Krieger School of Arts and Sciences and Whiting School of Engineering, with the input of the Homewood Academic Council, are adopting universal satisfactory/unsatisfactory grading this semester for their undergraduates. Some schools will begin offering forms of opt-in pass/fail, and others opt-out. Each of the Johns Hopkins school deans will be communicating to their students regarding adapted school grading policies, taking into consideration school-specific variables. All of the changes are based on the common recognition that we must provide greater accommodations to our students in this unusual and disrupted semester.

3.23号开始远程上课

### 生活购物
Costco平台配送延迟公告： 当天达的订单延迟至少5天，两天达的订单延迟至少12天。
部分商品限购：纸巾，湿巾等：

### 机票预订：
5.1号 马里兰BMI机场飞上海，无直达，能搜到的航班都需要转机3次. 
[查看链接](https://www.skyscanner.com.tw/transport/flights/bwi/csha/200501/?adults=1&children=0&adultsv2=1&childrenv2=&infants=0&cabinclass=economy&rtn=0&preferdirects=false&outboundaltsenabled=false&inboundaltsenabled=false&ref=home&locale=zh-CN)
