---
title: "COVID-19 campus update: Working remotely update, CARES Act information, and more"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.uiowa.edu/news/2020/04/covid-19-campus-update-working-remotely-update-cares-act-information-and-more
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-uiowa
---
Timeline for working remotely

Today marks week six of remote work for many university employees. Dealing with this evolving situation can cause stress and anxiety, and some of you may be eager to return to your workplace and routine while also feeling worried about when it will be safe to do so.

University leadership continues to monitor the latest guidance from UI medical and public health experts, the Iowa Department of Public Health; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and the Board of Regents, State of Iowa, to determine when it will be safe and appropriate to begin returning to campus. For now, those university employees working remotely should plan to do so until at least the end of the spring semester, May 15. Employees who are working remotely are reducing the threat of COVID-19 spread for everyone, including colleagues still reporting to work in person. Note that UI Health Care employees may be called back earlier than May 15 depending on patient volumes and specific organizational needs.

UI leadership is especially thankful for and proud of its front-line employees who continue to perform essential services on campus.

Please remember that the Employee Assistance Program is available to support you during this time, and resources to support working remotely can be found on the Working, Learning, and Leading remotely web page.

The UI thanks all employees for their commitment to the university during this uncertain time, and for their flexibility in keeping the workplace safe while also helping maintain essential functions.

Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund application (CARES Act)

The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act includes a Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) that provides emergency funding to higher education for expenses related to the disruption of campus operations due to the COVID-19 crisis.

Through the CARES Act, University of Iowa Student Financial Aid has grant funding of $8.315 million available to assist UI students experiencing financial difficulties related to the disruption of campus operations due to COVID-19.

To be eligible for this assistance, students must:

Meet Title IV eligibility requirements;

Demonstrate a financial hardship due to COVID-19 pandemic; and

due to COVID-19 pandemic; and Have submitted the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Eligible students who have not filed the FAFSA and have not been awarded Federal Direct Stafford Loans must file a FAFSA to be considered for this assistance.



The application form will be available on May 4 and can be accessed at that time on MyUI/Financial Aid. Login requires a HawkID and password.

If you have questions regarding eligibility, timeline, or process, visit the UI Office of Student Financial Aid website.

A musical gift of gratitude from Hancher

At a time when we can’t enjoy performances together in person, Chuck Swanson, executive director of the UI’s Hancher Auditorium, and Hancher staff asked the quartet Third Coast Percussion to create a special musical message for UI faculty, staff, and students. You can watch it below: