---
title: WHY CAN’T I MAKE THE SWITCH TO S-U GRADING NOW?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-25
link: >-
  http://undergrad.aa.ufl.edu/for-students/covid-19-and-academic-policies/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-ufl
---
Why can’t I make the switch to S-U grading now?
    

Setting the window of time to begin April 1 allows time for necessary conversations and information-gathering to make informed choices.  For Spring 2020 only, courses taken S-U will be accepted for all degree requirements with S grades if a student opts for this route.  However, students will need to think about longer-term impacts of their decision to shift to S-U grading.  For example, some graduate schools and professional schools do not accept S grades in courses, and, as of yet, associations representing these schools have not released any information concerning courses taken in Spring 2020.  Every student contemplating shifting to S-U grading or dropping their course should consult guidance prepared by their departments and /or college, reach out to aspirational professional schools to ask whether they will accept an S grade, and/or reach out to their academic advisor for guidance in making the right choice for them.

Also, the disruption in living at a time when courses transitioned has not afforded students and faculty time to equilibrate to the new academic environment.  Because the decision to change grading scales has the potential to have significant impact on the future, students need to develop a clearer understanding of their educational progress during this time.  After over two full weeks in the new environment, we believe students will have a better sense of whether their new environments will allow them to perform in their classes to the [best of their ability](https://elearning.ufl.edu/keep-learning/).

Once a student elects the S-U grading option, they cannot revert to a letter grade.  Therefore, **students should put time and thought into making this decision.**
