---
title: Emory-Wide Remote Learning for Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://www.emory.edu/coronavirus/emory/students/index.html?m=message-all-academic-continuity-planning-april-24
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-emory
---
April 30, 2020 9:27 AM Emory Principles for Decision Making and Fall Planning Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, At last week’s virtual town hall, we discussed some of the foundational principles that have helped shape the many decisions we’ve made in guiding Emory University through the new challenges of COVID-19. They affirm our commitments to compassion, honesty, respect and concern for the greater good, which are rooted within Emory’s long-standing values. The principles include: Emory will continue to vigorously pursue our mission to create, preserve, teach and apply knowledge in the service of humanity.

The health and safety of Emory’s students, faculty and staff is paramount in moving forward into recovery. We will make decisions based on the best medical, scientific and public health evidence and will be compliant with all federal, state and local laws and regulations and requirements of our accrediting bodies.

Emory will continue to provide excellent academic offerings, ensure student progress and protect our students’ ability to afford to attend Emory.

The ability of faculty, staff and students to conduct research and engage in scholarship will be fully supported. Interrupted and suspended activities will resume as soon as it is safe to do so.

Decisions will be reached in the context of shared governance and through processes that are transparent and collaborative. They will be supported by the best available data and draw upon the considerable expertise and intellectual capital of the university.

Decisions will allow for flexibility to respond to rapid and perhaps unanticipated changes in circumstances.

Financial well-being will be assessed with respect to the short-, medium- and long-term impacts on our community and Emory’s financial health.

Cost reductions through efficiencies and discretionary spending will be prioritized so as to minimize the impact on employment or compensation of our employees. If reductions affecting employment or compensation become necessary, they will be done in a fair and equitable manner that protects the most vulnerable (lowest paid) populations to the greatest extent possible.

We will communicate the basis and rationale for decisions to our community. While we have been called to make many decisions during this pandemic, one pending decision is the plan for reopening campus this fall. To that end, we assembled a Recovery Implementation Team that is using the principles above to outline solutions for a safe return to campus. This process includes a thoughtful review of important elements, including availability for COVID-19 testing, contact tracing procedures, isolation of COVID-19 positive individuals, plans to maximize social distancing and protection for the most vulnerable or for those who could be disproportionately impacted on campus. We will need to have procedures in place to continue physical distancing, oversee cleaning processes, establish universal face covering protocols and adhere to infection prevention strategies to maintain the health and safety of the Emory community. Our planning scenarios outline options for both in-person and remote learning modules as well as a combination of the two and are designed to dynamically adapt to public health guidelines and safety recommendations. However, there are still many variables to be considered for a fall reopening and many questions that need to be answered before we can release a definitive plan. We will communicate a decision and share what this means for the Emory community once important information is collected and analyzed, and a plan is developed for our community. While we thank you for your patience and understanding during this time, we also charge the entire Emory community — faculty, staff and students — to be imaginative and innovative as we work on creative and flexible solutions to meet our collective needs. It is certainly in Emory’s nature to be optimistic, and it is through interdisciplinary thought and courageous action that we can keep our community safe and healthy.

Sincerely, Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 29, 2020 9:44 AM Best Wishes for a Strong Finish Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, This week marks the beginning of final exams, a time that brings late nights and heightened stress as students and faculty conclude months of teaching and learning, preparing for next steps along the academic journey. Finals can be demanding in the best of times. But for everyone, this year has posed challenges unlike anything we’ve ever before experienced, as our spring semester was disrupted by a global pandemic. We want to acknowledge the remarkable resilience demonstrated by students, faculty and staff in adapting to significant changes, including an abrupt transition to online education. Our students had to adjust to a new way of learning in a very different environment. Faculty members swiftly pivoted to remote teaching, and across campus, staff members coordinated the technology and training needed to make it all work. Together, you’ve tackled these changes with creativity, talent and resolve. For that, we thank you. This is a very different kind of semester. Students may be feeling anxious about online tests or studying under stressful conditions at home without the convenience and reassurances of in-person study groups. They may be missing friends or finding it hard to concentrate and stay motivated. Meanwhile, faculty and staff are balancing their Emory-related responsibilities with additional demands at home as they care for family members and, in many cases, invest considerable time in their own children’s remote learning. We’re all juggling a lot and experiencing increased stress and anxiety. There are people and services here to help you make it through what has, for everyone, been an incredibly difficult time. If you are a student feeling stressed and unmotivated, please don’t hesitate to reach out to faculty members or academic advisors to answer questions, to better understand your academic support options. They understand the challenges you’ve had to face and are invested in seeing you succeed. For additional mental health and emotional support, a range of services are available to help with end-of-the-semester pressures, even if you are no longer on campus. Emory’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) now offers telehealth clinical services, where you can speak with a counselor or talk with a member of a triage team who can make assessments and help guide next steps. Learn more about CAPS services during COVID-19. We’ve created opportunities for social connections, which can be accessed through the Emory Virtual Community Hub, and you can also find messages of encouragement and support and connect with student voices through Emory social media accounts. Support is available to faculty and staff through the Faculty Staff Assistance Program (FSAP), which offers free and confidential services to help promote emotional, behavioral and organizational health. To support the increasing needs of our faculty, staff, physicians, trainees and their families throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, FSAP now offers tele-mental health services through telephonic and video-conferencing sessions and consultations. As the end of the semester quickly approaches, we want to extend our best wishes to all Emory students, faculty and staff for a safe and healthy conclusion to what has been an extraordinary year. Sincerely, Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 24, 2020 5:23 PM Town Hall Recap and link to video Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, Earlier today, we hosted a virtual town hall — an opportunity to address the many questions that you may have as we developed new ways to learn and work together during a global pandemic. Our goal was to connect as a community and share information about Emory’s plan for the future, to shed light on our decision-making process and to hear your concerns. In order to give voice to as many individuals as possible and due to the large size of the webinar, questions were solicited in advance. If you contributed questions, thank you. They helped guide an important conversation that touched upon how we are supporting students with financial constraints and housing needs, financial impacts to the university, and questions about reopening campus. To find answers to questions that may not have been touched upon during the webinar, we encourage you to visit Emory’s COVID-19 website; you’ll find many of those questions are addressed on our FAQ page, which is regularly updated as new information emerges. If you were unable to attend the town hall, here is a link to the recording. If prompted, please enter your NetID and password. As the fluidity of this situation continues to develop and additional decisions are made, communication will remain crucial to sustaining a strong Emory community. We will continue to bring you up-to-date information about new decisions and developments through Emory Together emails. We’ll also invite your participation in additional town hall meetings. Thank you for being part of the conversation.

Sincerely, Claire E. Sterk, President Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 24, 2020 4:31 PM Emory Academic Continuity Planning Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff --This message is sent on behalf of the leadership of Emory’s Academic Continuity Group, which is coordinating Emory’s response to COVID-19-- Dear Emory community, Without a doubt, this semester has provided lessons for all of us. Many of us have become newly acquainted with public health terminology, and extraordinary measures such as quarantine, stay-at-home orders, and physical distancing have clarified just how interconnected our lives — and our health — really are. Many of us have also experienced uncertainty the likes of which we might never have imagined. We all want to know how and when it will end, and we all want to bring a semblance of order, predictability and regularity to our lives. Since early February, the Office of the Provost, working with colleagues throughout the university, has been laser-focused on the spread of COVID-19, its impacts on our community, and the forms of support our students, faculty, and staff need as we do our part to respond and seek to flatten the curve. This required many decisions and rapid actions, including: Implementing remote learning for 4,239 classes taught by 1,662 professors;

Supporting thousands of employees in transitioning to remote working;

Developing a pandemic mitigation plan that resulted in ramping down and redirecting all but critical activities in our nearly $690 million research operation;

Recalling more than 150 undergraduate students from study abroad;

Helping 4,100 students move out of the residence halls;

Accommodating and relocating more than 300 students, including 49 from our Oxford campus, who were unable to return home before the end of the semester to the Clairmont campus;

Issuing student credits for housing, dining, and fees totaling nearly $14 million;

Providing students with lump sum payments of nearly $400,000 for federal work study, and paying non-federal work-study student employees $1,075,197 for anticipated on campus work contributions;

Providing $1.55 million in cash stipends to undergraduate students with the greatest financial need;

Disbursing $2.2 million to graduate and undergraduate students through the EmoryTogether fund, processing more than 6,000 requests for aid; and we expect to process another 1,000 applications for assistance;

fund, processing more than 6,000 requests for aid; and we expect to process another 1,000 applications for assistance; Creating a virtual community hub to pull together ways that students can connect online with old friends, make new friends and take care of themselves and others;

virtual community hub to pull together ways that students can connect online with old friends, make new friends and take care of themselves and others; Treating more than 700 student patients in student health services, and preparing a secondary facility in the event of a surge in illness;

Adapting grading policies for students, and extending the tenure clocks for faculty;

Combatting health stigmatization and racism by reaffirming and communicating our core values;

Aligning academic affairs, health sciences, and business administration to effectively manage our resources with the greatest of care so that we can be in the strongest possible position for the fall. Alongside all this activity, we have been planning for the future by drawing on the expertise of our world-renown and pioneering faculty in public health. We are assessing the capacities of our extraordinary health care system, learning from our peers, and consulting our partners at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC. The outstanding question on the minds of all of us at Emory is what will happen in the fall? We don’t have a decision for you just yet. However, we do want you to know that we are working on a plan for the coming academic year, and we thought you might appreciate more insight into the process and framework we’re using to reach decisions. The health and safety of our students, faculty, and staff is paramount. And we’ll settle for nothing less than excellence in the arenas of teaching and learning. Colleagues from across the university have been meeting in teams with leaders from each and every school and college, including Campus Life, Campus Services, Occupational Safety, Research Administration, Student Health, General Counsel, Communications and Public Affairs, Business Affairs, Enrollment Services, Admissions, Financial Aid, the Registrar’s Office, and Procurement to tackle problems and rapidly identify possible solutions. Together with CEPAR, we are drawing on all of these insights and operational expertise to develop a plan that will allow us to deliver on our academic mission, maintain standards, support path-breaking research, and advance the priorities of the university. All of us want to be together again to study and learn, explore and share just as soon as it safe for us to do so. We all want a return to life on campus, to classrooms and residence halls, libraries and labs, and clinical placements. When might we do so? How can we best support a healthy campus? These are among the many factors we are integrating in our planning. As we do this work, we’re inspired by the creativity, commitment, and resolve of our community. We will get through this together. Moreover, we are confident that — because of the efforts of so many — we are building an Emory that is even more capable and adaptive to change. That resilience will serve us well in both the short- and the long-term. Thank you for your patience as we explore what’s possible. Our resolve remains to “create, preserve, teach, and apply knowledge in the service of humanity.” And that mission matters now more than ever. Sincerely, Christa Acampora, Deputy Provost for Academic Affairs Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life Please visit the Academic Continuity page on Emory’s Coronavirus website for additional information.

April 21, 2020 10:32 AM Emory Town Hall | Friday, April 24 Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, As we enter our seventh week of remote learning and work due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we know that you likely have many questions about how Emory is planning for the future and the basis for its decision making. While a video meeting certainly isn’t the same as coming together on campus face-to-face, we want to connect with you and address your questions via a virtual town hall meeting on Friday, April 24, 2020, from 2-3 p.m. EDT. Please note that while attendees are capped at 10,000 people, we will record the discussion and send any materials presented via email shortly after the meeting concludes to all students, faculty and staff. Questions for the town hall will be collected in advance to ensure that we can get to as many as possible. To submit a question for consideration, please visit this Google Form. Questions that are not answered during the town hall will inform additions and updates to our COVID-19 FAQs, which can be found here. We look forward to the conversation and continue to wish for health and safety for the entire Emory community. Please click the link below to join the webinar: https://emory.zoom.us/j/91454601423 Or iPhone one-tap: US: +14703812552,,91454601423# or +14702509358,,91454601423# Or Telephone: Dial (for higher quality, dial a number based on your current location): US: +1-470-381-2552 or +1-470-250-9358 or +1-646-558-8656 or +1-312-626-6799 or +1-301-715-8592 or +1-346-248-7799 or +1-669-900-6833 or +1-253-215-8782 Webinar ID: 914 5460 1423 International numbers available: https://emory.zoom.us/u/acObjeOLBn

Sincerely, Claire E. Sterk, President Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 17, 2020 4:20 PM Commencement Update: Celebrating the Class of 2020 Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff --The following message was sent to Emory students who will be graduating in the spring of 2020-- Dear Emory Class of 2020, Emory’s Commencement ceremonies represent a soaring pinnacle of student achievement as our entire academic community comes together — along with beloved family and friends — to celebrate the culmination of your academic journey. We understand and share in your sense of loss not only for the formal Commencement festivities, but also for the very personal farewell and “thank you” moments with friends, faculty, mentors, and staff. While these in-person moments will have to wait for another day, we are eager to join your family and friends in celebrating the extraordinary accomplishments of your class in May. Over the past few weeks, a Commencement Task Force has gathered invaluable ideas and input from students, faculty, staff, and alumni. Students specifically — both undergraduate and graduate — were integral in guiding the final decisions and shared valuable feedback regarding key aspects of the traditional event they hold most dear. The goal was to create meaningful experiences that honor some of our beloved Commencement traditions and invite your voices to be part of the celebration in a way that can be preserved and cherished for years to come. In addition to the individual school events, a new interactive website will launch on May 4, to allow the entire community — family, friends, faculty members, staff, alumni and students — to honor graduates through uploaded messages, photos, and videos celebrating both your time within the Emory community and your induction as our newest alumni class. One website example is the “Y/our Moment,” a short film that helps tell the story of the Class of 2020 from your perspective and that of your faculty. These videos, along with many other ceremonial and celebratory pieces, will be featured on the website and shareable with your network of friends and family. We hope that you will take the time to engage in these interactive opportunities and add your personal thoughts and memories. Throughout the week of May 4, several other events will be featured on the site including Class Day and Baccalaureate presentations. Oxford College and several of Emory’s schools will host unique live and recorded award presentations and ceremonies, all leading up to the special events on May 11 when your degrees will be conferred (Oxford will be conferred on May 9). One special opportunity on that day will be an interactive address from our 2020 Commencement speaker, Bryan Stevenson, acclaimed human rights lawyer, activist, founder, and executive director of the Montgomery, Alabama-based Equal Justice Initiative. Rest assured, Emory plans to invite graduates from the class of 2020 back to campus to gather, celebrate, and be recognized with family and friends. In today’s uncertain environment, we do not know the date that may be possible or exactly what the Commencement celebrations will look like —but we are committed to figuring out a path forward with you, Class of 2020. We know how important this is to so many of you and acknowledge the challenges that segments of the class may face in attending a future event on campus. The feedback of student representatives has been a critical part of the Commencement planning process and will remain so as we plan for these celebrations. In the meantime, we hope that these special Commencement activities, both university-wide and from your schools, will provide a real sense of completion and acknowledgement of a job well done under extraordinary circumstances. You’ve earned it, and we cannot wait to share in these experiences with you. We applaud your accomplishments, and look forward to joining you online soon, and in-person very soon.

Sincerely, Claire E. Sterk, President Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Joshua R. Newton, Senior Vice President for Advancement and Alumni Engagement Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 16, 2020 10:18 AM Emory Student Organizations Provide Support Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, In our rapid transition to a new style of learning, teaching and working, many members of our community have helped ease the way for others. It’s within those moments that we find individuals who support the greater good. While examples of such service can be found in every corner of our campus and health care communities, we particularly want to acknowledge the creativity, patience and determination that have been demonstrated by our Emory students. Graduate and undergraduate students at Emory’s Atlanta and Oxford College campuses have worked with other graduate and undergraduate students, staff, faculty and administrators to create new systems and portals and to identify resources that have helped make our new model work. Even amid the disruptions of packing to leave campus and adjust to remote learning, Emory students helped one another. During last month’s move-out, the Emory Student Government Association (SGA) quickly arranged free MARTA passes to help with transportation needs and collected and shared student concerns about remote learning. At the same time, the Emory College Council shifted to public online meetings and produced COVID-19-specific resources. The Emory Graduate Student Government Association (GSGA) has provided a range of resources, including sharing virtual fitness, health and wellness activities via social media; hosting a weekly online “Quarantine Quiz Show;” and facilitating discussions about ways to create and maintain a sense of community online. GSGA has maintained open lines of communication with each division to keep abreast of the remote student experience and related needs. The Oxford SGA also played a driving role in providing support and secured free boxes for students who returned to campus to pack up their rooms, while Oxford student residence life staff offered hands-on help to pack belongings for the transition to remote learning. Using social media, the Oxford SGA also launched a spotlight series to illustrate how students are managing the call for physical distancing. And as everyone has settled into a new online learning, graduate and undergraduate governance on both campuses opened new avenues for student involvement, moving governance meetings online, hosting virtual town halls and providing digital voting options for this month’s regularly scheduled elections. When students choose Emory, we know that they bring with them exceptional qualities, including leadership skills, creative minds, a desire to serve others, and an appreciation for the rewards that come from hard work. During these challenging times, it has been inspiring to see these skills applied to the larger good. From a grateful community, please know that your investments in supporting Emory are both acknowledged and deeply appreciated.

Sincerely, Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 14, 2020 10:30 AM Emory’s Virtual Community Hub Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emory community, Living through a global pandemic has driven home a truth that we’ve known all along: Emory is much more than a physical place. Whether you are on campus or a world away, we know that you carry with you the connections, the spirit and the values that, woven together, constitute the fibers of our cherished Emory bond. As we continue to adjust to the realities of remote learning, teaching and working, we want to make it easier for you to feel your connection to the Emory community. While we miss the ease of running into friends on the quad or attending our favorite club and athletic events, know that we are working on new ways to sustain a sense of community and stay connected. Student organizations, clubs and departments have created a growing selection of online meet-ups and virtual events that we hope you’ll explore and experience. Whether you’re used to meeting at the library for a study group, making new friends at the Emory Student Center or taking a break at the Michael C. Carlos Museum, please know that many Emory events and activities are available to you in new, online platforms. To make it easier to find the types of events and activities now available online—both familiar and exciting new opportunities—we have created the Emory Virtual Community Hub. This informational hub is designed for students to connect with friends and engage in Emory activities no matter where they may be. Here, you’ll find a place to connect, whether it’s joining the Buddhist Club for weekly meditation sessions or attending a virtual symposium or webinar. Explore how others are processing this unprecedented experience by visiting the Student Artist Virtual Gallery. There is even a place to record your own thoughts by writing a “Note to Self”—a reflection that will be kept in a “digital time capsule” and emailed back to you a year from now. To learn more, or to submit information about online events that you are organizing, we invite you to visit https://links.emory.edu/community. As we respond to the limitations of COVID-19 with new ideas and innovations, we invite you to join the conversation with your own creative suggestions. Together, let us face our shared challenges with community and connection.

Sincerely, Jan Love, Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Christopher L. Augostini, Executive Vice President for Business and Administration, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan S. Lewin, Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, Executive Director, Woodruff Health Sciences Center, President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board, Emory Healthcare Enku Gelaye, Vice President and Dean of Campus Life

April 10, 2020 5:02 PM Emory College Summer School Updates Emory College Students Dear student,

As you recently heard from the Provost’s office, courses will not be held on campus this summer. However, Emory College Online courses are still available, and most scheduled Emory College Summer School courses will be transitioning to the online format. You may view a list of all of the courses that will be transitioning to an online format, as well as all of the existing Emory College Online courses on the Summer Programs website.

The Course Atlas and OPUS will be updated over the coming week to reflect the shift of courses to the online format and to update each course with its new synchronous meeting times. Please be patient as we make these updates.

For those of you that were already enrolled in an on-campus Summer School course, you will remain enrolled as that course transitions to online. You will receive an email next week once all synchronous course times have been updated. At that point, we will encourage all enrolled students to check the required meeting times and decide if you would like to remain enrolled in the online version of the course. If you are no longer interested in being enrolled in a course as it transitions to an online format, you may drop the course via OPUS.

If your on-campus course is not transitioning to the online format, it will be cancelled, and you will receive an email notification to that effect. This will be rare, as most planned on-campus summer courses are transitioning to online.

Please note that all online summer courses will follow the Emory College Online format, which means that: All courses will include a combination of required synchronous sessions and asynchronous course content. Students are expected to attend the live synchronous sessions, just as they would be expected to attend classes on campus.

All students will need a webcam and a reliable internet connection in order to participate in their course. Please see the other technology requirements here

All regular Emory College academic policies (including add/drop/swap deadlines, S/U deadlines, Honor Code, etc.) apply to Emory College Online courses. Many online summer courses are at or near enrollment capacity. Please use the waitlist feature to indicate your intent to enroll in a course, even if it is full. The waitlists will be used to determine when additional sections of courses should be opened.

We are hopeful that those of you who desire to make academic progress this summer will be able to do so. Please email oue.advising@emory.edu to connect with an Academic Advisor or summerprograms@emory.edu with questions about summer online course offerings.

Sincerely, Emory College Summer Programs

April 10, 2020 1:19 PM Emory Summer Offerings Online and Fall Study Abroad Canceled Emory College, Oxford College, Business, Graduate, Law, Medicine, Nursing, Public Health, Theology Students, Faculty, Staff Dear Emo