---
title: How will I be assessed?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-08
link: >-
  https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/coronavirus/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-st-andrews
---
We want you to know that, when setting your assignments and examinations, your tutors will have given careful consideration to the very unusual circumstances under which you have produced the work. Assessment will be adjusted to make fair allowance for the fact that you are now studying in a different environment, away from your library, seminar rooms and laboratories.

Examination formats have been changed to match the different circumstances, and in some modules examinations may be cancelled altogether. You will soon hear from each of your module co-ordinators what your assessments and examinations will look like.

Moreover, once we have overall module results, we will analyse them against the historic record in order to detect any anomalies or dramatic changes and make adjustments accordingly. In short, we will do everything we can to ensure that you will be awarded fair grades.

For undergraduate students nervous about entering your intended Honours pathway, or about the impact of the current semester’s grades on your overall degree classification, we are putting in place two new sets of regulations for this semester only:

  1. **Honours Entry**  – If you are about to start an Honours programme in 2020-2021 (including entry to Honours in January 2021), any grade-related Honours entry prerequisites for modules taught in Semester 2, 2019-2020 will be reduced from 11.0 (or an average of 11.0 across a range of required 2000-level modules) to a simple pass at 7.0. This means that as long as you have passed all of the required modules for Honours entry and have garnered the requisite number of credits at the right level, you will be free to progress to your intended Honour programme. This will also apply to passes achieved for Semester 2 modules during the re-assessment diet in August 2020.
  2. **Honours Classification**  – All of our students completing modules at 3000- or 4000-level or taught modules at 5000-level in Semester 2 will have the option of having any module result retrospectively S-coded on the basis of the disruption caused by the COVID-19 crisis. This will be in addition to any S-codes awarded for other reasons in line with the current policy. This means that students can, in this circumstance only, ask for an S-code to be attached to one, several or all of their Semester 2 modules (including year-long modules reported in Semester 2) after they have been notified of the module result. S-coded module result(s) will not be used for the calculation of the degree classification if they have a negative effect on the class of degree awarded. Any module S-coded in this way will not count against the overall maximum number of S-coded credits available to students in other semesters and for other reasons.



This means that you can study with confidence, knowing that if – in spite of your best efforts and our determination to grade you as fairly as possible – you are not satisfied with a module result, you can ask for it not to be factored into the calculation of your degree classification.

Please await communications from your School regarding the precise format of the assessment and examinations in your modules.
