---
title: Will graduation go ahead as planned?
subtitle: 
date: NaT
link: >-
  https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/coronavirus/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-st-andrews
---
After careful consideration, the University has taken the difficult decision to cancel graduation ceremonies planned for 22 to 26 June 2020.

Our duty of care to our students, their families, and our staff has informed all the decisions we have made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot guarantee that the UK will be sufficiently free of risk, or the current restrictions on public life, by June to allow graduation ceremonies to proceed. 

If you are eligible to graduate this June, you can still receive your degree certificate this summer. Please consider the following options carefully, and discuss them with your family if you wish.

  * _Option 1_  Graduate  _in absentia_  and participate in a future ceremony: You  **will graduate**   _in absentia_ , receive your degree certificate and HEAR documents to the address you provide on the application form, and  **opt in  **to attend a future graduation ceremony (within the next three years). If you choose this option, you  **will have graduated**  and you  **will**  be invited to participate in a future ceremony.


  * _Option 2_  Graduate  _in absentia_  with no future ceremony date: You  **will graduate**   _in absentia_ , receive your degree certificate and HEAR documents to the address you provide on the application form, and  **opt out**  of attending a future graduation ceremony. If you choose this option, you  **will have graduated**  and you  **will not  **be invited to participate in a future ceremony.


  * _Option 3_  Defer your graduation to a future date: You  **will not graduate**  this year and you will not ** ** receive your degree certificate and HEAR documents this semester. If you choose this option, you  **will not have graduated,**  and you  **will**  be invited to graduate at a future ceremony (within the next three years).



You will be able to specify your choice when applications open in a few weeks, and we will write to you again before that date.

Degree certificates and HEAR documents will be sent as soon as possible after the classification of degrees has been released.
