---
title: COVID-19 update from Vice President for Student Life Jon Dooley
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-23
link: >-
  https://www.elon.edu/u/coronavirus/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-elon
---
Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff,

Today Governor Roy Cooper announced an [executive order](https://files.nc.gov/governor/documents/files/EO121-Stay-at-Home-Order-3.pdf) directing North Carolina residents to stay at home to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus. The order takes effect at 5 p.m., Monday, March 30, and remains in effect for 30 days.

Elon University announced steps on March 22 in anticipation of this action (see original email message copied below). Our operational changes will remain in effect until April 29 in compliance with Governor Cooper’s order. This will impact Elon’s earlier announcement of plans to resume undergraduate classes on campus April 20. The university has been working on several contingency plans and, based on today’s actions by the governor, will provide an update to the community in our Monday 2 p.m. email message.

In the meantime, online learning will continue, main campus facilities will remain closed to walk-in traffic, and all services are operating remotely and by appointment. Staff members are working remotely unless they provide essential services including food, health, cleaning, and safety support for students unable to leave campus; financial functions; and maintaining the security and integrity of physical facilities and campus digital networks and systems.

The essential services currently available to students who need to stay on campus (described in the message below) will continue.

Students who are currently living on or near campus: this stay-at-home order applies to you, as well as all others in the state. During the next 30 days you should not leave your house, apartment or residence except to get food, medicine or necessary supplies; exercise outdoors; to take care of others in need or do volunteer service; or to perform other essential functions outlined in the [executive order](https://files.nc.gov/governor/documents/files/EO121-Stay-at-Home-Order-3.pdf). You should also continue to practice all social distancing requirements described in the order and in our previous messages to the community.

If you need emergency assistance or face a crisis, please call 911 or contact Campus Safety and Police at 336-278-5555. Student Life administrators on call, as well as the counselor on call and violence responders, remain available throughout this time as well and can be reached via Campus Safety and Police, 336-278-5555. The resources and support of the confidential SafeLine also continue operations at 336-278-3333.

Staff and faculty with questions about the impact of the stay-at-home order should contact your respective supervisor, dean or divisional vice president. Students living on campus are encouraged to consult with your community director or the Student Life administrator on call.

This continues to be a challenging situation – one that requires us to come together as a community to do our part to ensure the safety of ourselves and others. We will continue to keep you informed about our university coronavirus response through the university website [www.elon.edu/coronavirus](http://www.elon.edu/coronavirus), our regular Monday 2 p.m. community updates, and additional email messages as needed.

Dr. Jon Dooley  
Vice President for Student Life

____

**PREVIOUS EMAIL MESSAGE TO CAMPUS**

SUNDAY, MARCH 22, 2020

Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff,

Elon University has already taken action to move classroom instruction online and enable hundreds of staff members to work from home, consistent with social distancing recommendations from federal, state and local officials. As we enter a period of remote learning and working, we are making a shift in the operation of the physical campus, in support of the recommendation of the NC Department of Health and Human Services to use remote working technology to the greatest extent possible.

Beginning this Monday, through Sunday, April 5, facilities will be closed to walk-in traffic and all services are operating remotely and by appointment. Staff members should work remotely whenever possible, unless they provide essential services including food, health, cleaning, and safety support for students unable to leave campus; financial functions; and maintaining the security and integrity of physical facilities and campus digital networks and systems.

Staff members who have not yet completed the temporary remote work request form, and whose positions have been defined to work remotely, should complete and send for approval as requested in the form. All forms need to be submitted electronically to hr@elon.edu.

Access to academic and administrative buildings is by card swipe only and limited to faculty and staff who need access for work. Any exceptions for individual student access to academic facilities will be made by deans on a case-by-case basis.

Belk Library services will be provided remotely – students should utilize online library resources and contact librarians to make appointments if they need access to library materials to complete their coursework. Campus Recreation and Wellness indoor facilities are closed and campus transportation systems will not operate.

Meal plans are in effect and Lakeside Dining Hall will be open to provide to-go meals for students needing to remain on campus. For hours and menus, visit: <https://www.elondining.com/menu-hours/>.  
The Moseley Center and Mail Services will be available Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. – 2 p.m.  
Student Health Services is available by appointment only, Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. – 12 pm. and 1 – 4 p.m. Information about appointments and what do to if you are concerned about symptoms related to COVID-19 can be accessed online here: <https://www.elon.edu/u/health-wellness/health-services/>  
Two computer labs will be available for students and cleaned regularly – the Alamance 315 PC lab and Steers Pavilion Apple lab will be accessible via card access, 6 a.m. – midnight.

While we have suspended much of the operation of the physical campus, we want to stress that the university continues in operation via online systems. Starting Monday, faculty are teaching all courses online and will work with students to complete spring semester. The university’s business operations will also continue to the extent possible, with work proceeding using online tools. Many departments and campus services have online resources and services available to students – check department websites for additional information.

Essential employees will be contacted by their supervisors to arrange work shifts and adjusted duties, and advise them about steps they should take to protect their health and safety when on campus.

If you need emergency assistance or face a crisis, please call 911 or contact Campus Safety and Police at 336-278-5555. Student Life administrators on call, as well as the counselor on call and violence responders, remain available throughout this time as well and can be reached via Campus Safety and Police, 336-278-5555. The resources and support of the confidential SafeLine also continue operations at 336-278-3333.

We will continue to keep you informed about our university coronavirus response through the university website www.elon.edu/coronavirus, our regular Monday 2 p.m. community update, and additional email messages as needed.

Dr. Jon Dooley  
Vice President for Student Life
