---
title: "March 12, 2020 10:02 a.m. - From the Dean of Students"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-12
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Good morning,

In light of Tuesday’s announcement by President Crawford that we are suspending face-to-face instruction, we want to provide you with some tools, advice, and resources on how to be successful in your remote-instruction classes.  

The first thing to remember is that classes  **are still happening  **and you will continue to experience academic demands similar to face-to-face courses. Remote instruction is not a free pass or an early spring break. You are still expected to actively participate in your courses, and will continue to be graded on your performance. Your professors should be providing guidance on what is expected and how information will be delivered. It is vital that you check your email regularly for guidance and updates.

#### Tips for Remote Learning

Some of you may be new to remote learning, and below are tips to help you navigate this new territory.  

  * First, make sure to check your Canvas sites regularly. Review all parts of the site to ensure you are fully aware of course expectations.
  * Maintain a regular schedule. Set aside time to engage with course material daily and keep a normal sleep schedule. Significant changes to sleep schedules negatively impact acquisition of new knowledge and ability to recall learned information.
  * Maintain communication with faculty and peers in class. There are multiple ways to connect with instructors and classmates. If you are confused or concerned, ask questions and get clarification.



Rinella Learning Specialists are available to meet with you to help you prepare for upcoming exams and to develop strategies for learning through the new remote format. Set up an appointment with a learning specialist by calling 513-529-8741.

#### Technology Access

If you are concerned about your access to technology resources for remote instruction, please know that all University Libraries are currently operating under a normal schedule and have [computers available](https://www.lib.miamioh.edu/tech/computer-labs) for student use.

The Student Success Center also has laptops available through their [F5 Laptop Program](https://miamioh.formstack.com/forms/miami_cares_resources) (for undergrads). 

#### Academic Support

We are working on remote delivery of academic support services through Rinella Learning Center. [Howe Writing Center](https://miamioh.edu/hcwe/hwc/index.html) appointments are now online. Faculty will continue holding office hours, though those may happen via WebEx, phone call, email or chat.

Please know the Division of Student Life is here to support you through this transition to remote instruction.

Very sincerely,

Kimberly Moore, Ed.D.  
Associate Vice President and Dean of Students  
Division of Student Life 
