---
title: Wednesday, March 18, 2020 - From the Dean of Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-18
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Miami Faculty and Staff,

In an effort to keep you informed, please see the below message that was just sent to all Oxford undergraduate and graduate students with resources to support their transition to remote learning. We encourage you to take a look and refer students as needed.

Kimberly A. Moore, Ed.D.  
Associate Vice President and Dean of Students

_____________________________________

Dear Miami students,

We recognize the new challenges you may be facing as you are transitioning to remote learning for the rest of the semester. Please know the Division of Student Life is here to support you both academically and emotionally.

Some students, faculty, and parents have asked for advice and ideas on how to set up a remote learning environment for success. We have attached a remote learning guide from the Rinella Learning Center. This guide can also be found on Rinella’s new [Remote Learning website](https://miamioh.edu/student-life/rinella-learning-center/academic-support/online-resources/remote-learning/index.html).

Additional virtual resources that may be helpful:

  * The Rinella Learning Center is now providing remote tutoring appointments and supplemental instruction. Remote tutoring can be accessed through Canvas.
  * [Howe Writing Center](//www.miamioh.edu/hcwe/hwc/index.html) appointments are now online.
  * Remote services and resources from the [University Libraries](https://www.lib.miamioh.edu/coronavirus) are available.
  * The [H.O.P.E. line](https://miamioh.edu/student-life/student-counseling-service/resources/hope-line/index.html) is available 24/7 for students to call for immediate support, crisis intervention, and stabilization from a licensed mental health counselor. 855-249-5649.



While remote coursework may be inherently more independent than meeting face-to-face, we urge you to stay in touch with your instructors and communicate how things are going. When you have questions about course content, connectivity issues or concerns about your progress, start with your instructors. They likely won’t know about these issues until you tell them. They, like you, may be navigating a remote classroom environment for the first time.

We know this isn’t an ideal situation - none of us expected, even a week ago, that this is where we would be today. Things may change again tomorrow, but in uncertain times, this is what I know - we are committed to listen and respond as new needs arise. We ask that all members of our community continue to be flexible, and do their best at staying committed to learning. During this challenging time, make sure you are taking care of yourself and others, and know that Student Life is here to support you in whatever way we can.

Very sincerely,

Kimberly A. Moore, Ed.D.  
Associate Vice President and Dean of Students
