---
title: Tuesday, April 07, 2020 - From the Dean of Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Hello Miami students,

Spring has arrived in Oxford! For those of you who are staying in Oxford for the rest of the semester, please do what you can to help keep yourselves and our community healthy and well.

As you may know, Governor DeWine has extended his “stay at home” order through May 1. I know it’s tempting to be outside and gather with friends on these warm, sunny days, but social distancing is very important in preventing the spread of COVID-19. You can spend time with the residents of your own house or apartment; however you should not be congregating in groups that include other people at this time, even outdoors. In fact, [you may be charged criminally](https://www.wlwt.com/article/man-arrested-for-violating-stay-at-home-order-accused-of-posting-video-of-large-gathering-in-otr/32041180) and/or charged under the Code of Student Conduct for violating the State of Ohio’s stay at home orders. We are in unprecedented times, requiring each of us to make good decisions for the benefit of all.

As a reminder, good hygiene practices will also increase the likelihood of staying healthy, especially as you go to places where you will interact with other people. When you are out taking care of essential business, be sure to practice good handwashing techniques, avoid touching your face, and maintain at least 6 feet between yourself and other people. In addition, the CDC recently revised their [recommendations about masks](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/diy-cloth-face-coverings.html); they now recommend wearing cloth face coverings in public settings where other social distancing measures are difficult to maintain (e.g., grocery stores and pharmacies). Finally, take the time to plan ahead so that you can go to the store as infrequently as possible.

It is your responsibility to stay current on the requirements and guidelines put in place for the State of Ohio during this rapidly changing crisis. The Governor holds a press conference each day at 2pm, available live @TheOhioChannel on Facebook; they also post daily summaries as a good way to stay current.

For all students, whether in Oxford or in your homes around the country and world, I hope you and your loved ones are staying healthy and well. We miss you, wish you well, and look forward to seeing you back in town once this health crisis has passed.

Be well,  
Jayne Brownell  
Vice President for Student Life
