---
title: "Wednesday, March 11, 2020 7:25 p.m. - From the Dean of Students"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-11
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Dear Miami Students,

We recognize you are experiencing a significant and unexpected disruption to your routine. It is our goal to support you and help you stay safe, healthy, and engaged. As you know, campus remains open with modifications to maintain the health of students. This includes large gatherings. Activities and events with more than 150 participants will be and should be canceled. Please note that this number is subject to change at any time. Please check the websites and social media of event organizers to verify event status. 

#### Support

Transitioning from a structured routine to a more self-driven schedule requiring more time management can be stressful. You are not alone in this stress. It’s normal to feel a bit uncertain or overwhelmed with the new expectations that come with remote delivery of courses and changes to co-curricular opportunities. 

All services (individual counseling, group counseling, workshops) are being held as normal at the [Student Counseling Service](https://miamioh.edu/student-life/student-counseling-service/). The [H.O.P.E. Line](https://miamioh.edu/student-life/student-counseling-service/resources/hope-line/index.html) is also available 24/7 for students to call for immediate support, crisis intervention, and stabilization (855-249-5649). 

#### Social Activities

Please make good choices about your free time and time spent socializing. Specifically:

  * Avoid events and venues with large numbers of people where illness can spread easily.
  * Avoid excessive alcohol consumption. It can impair the body’s ability to defend against infection.
  * Do not host large gatherings; limit the number of guests at smaller gatherings.
  * Implement personal protective measures (e.g., stay home when sick, handwashing, clean frequently touched surfaces daily).
  * Avoid close contact, including handshakes and hugging.



#### Be Kind and Help Each Other

Please continue treating each other with care and compassion.

  * Remember our Good Samaritan policy, and call for help when you have a friend in need.
  * Practice your bystander intervention education: direct, distract, or delegate if you see a situation that you feel could lead to harm.
  * Interact with others in a civil way, even if they express/embrace a divergent point of view; engaging across difference is a source of personal growth.
  * Respect others for who they are; our diversity is a strength and should be welcomed and honored.



We share these tips because we care about you and we want you to be happy, healthy, and successful. You have enormous potential to do great things—at Miami and beyond—and the world needs you right now.

Best, 

Dean Kimberly Moore
