---
title: Message from the Office of the President
subtitle: April 6, 2020 — Sent Systemwide
date: 2020-04-06
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EbfK3lQkS7F0zEfgXEIzDEDNt_cn7Qfe/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff, 

As has often been said during the emergence of COVID-19 in Minnesota and worldwide, our collective response will test our endurance. I hope that you were able to find time over the weekend to maintain and build up your endurance in ways that work best for you. Please take advantage of the resources available to support you if you find yourself or your loved ones needing support. 

I have a couple of updates to share with you today: 

Alternative Formats for Summer Coursework While we manage through the immediate concerns and challenges presented by COVID-19, my leadership team and I are also considering plans for the intermediate and long-term future. Through it all, we continue to stay focused on several key principles in our decision-making: prioritize the health, safety, and well-being of all members of our University family; continue the teaching, research, and outreach mission of our University to the extent our circumstances allow at the highest possible quality; keep solutions as simple as possible; and communicate our actions transparently and regularly. 

With this in mind, registration will soon begin for summer term courses systemwide. We have decided that all upcoming summer term classes (for undergraduates, as well as for graduate and professional students) across the University system will be conducted through alternative instruction. In many cases, this will not be a significant change. We were already considering alternative methods of instruction for many of our summer term courses. Our Crookston campus, for example, has been a leader in alternative formats for many years and its summer courses were already planned to be exclusively online. 

Each campus will communicate with students and faculty this week about its specific summer plans for 2020, so keep an eye out for those messages. You will have all of the information you need in the very near future to make your summer academic plans. 

Board of Regents Meeting - April 7 The Board of Regents will meet again at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Meeting materials will be posted on the Board of Regents website after 7 a.m. The meeting will also be live streamed online. We anticipate this meeting will cover a lot of ground, including additional consideration of the start date for financial credits authorized by the Board on Friday, the significant steps we have taken in the last few weeks to position our students and institution for success, and the steps we now must begin to take to prepare us for the near and long-term future. 

COVID-19 Town Hall - April 7 I am hosting a systemwide Town Hall meeting tomorrow to discuss our University’s response to the public health challenges presented by COVID-19—past, present, and future. Students, faculty, and staff may submit questions in advance through an online form (U of M login required). Information for connecting to the live Town Hall from 4-5 p.m. will be available tomorrow at this link. 

It has been more than three weeks since we took our first significant steps toward slowing the spread of COVID-19 in our community. We have begun to establish new routines academically, professionally, and personally, and we continue to do important work to ensure testing and contribute to high-quality frontline health care. We have done so much so quickly and I hope you feel #UMNproud! 

Please remember to be healthy, safe, and well so you can maintain your endurance. Though it’s impossible to know exactly what lies ahead, you continue to prove that together, we will overcome whatever presents itself. 

With warmest regards, 

Joan Gabel 