---
title: Message from the Office of the President
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-25
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BdkjvYvDwvxDJJuGmttSGzyEoWNE3Xz_/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff, 

This afternoon, Minnesota Governor Tim Walz announced a “stay at home” order for the State of Minnesota beginning at 11:59 p.m. Friday, March 27, and continuing for two weeks, until 5 p.m. Friday, April 10. This executive action directs all Minnesotans to stay home and limit trips outside the home to critical needs only. 

We anticipated this possibility as we planned our response to COVID-19 and we are prepared for today’s directive from the Governor. In fact, for most of us, the tremendous changes we have already implemented are closely aligned with the Governor’s action, and this will not significantly change the way we are currently teaching, learning, and working. We have already moved our coursework to alternative instruction formats, most employees are working remotely, and we have clarified the parts of our organization that must continue to come to work on campus under this stay-at-home scenario, among many other policy and operational considerations. Thank you for all you have done individually and together to ready us for this moment. 

Below is an overview of what the Governor’s order means for our University community: 

Purpose of This Action 

Stay-at-home executive actions are emerging across the country to limit broad community contact in an effort to slow the exponential growth of COVID-19 transmission—an important next step in our response to this pandemic. Public health officials have encouraged social distancing as a tool to stem the tide and Governor Walz’s order today aligns with that recommendation. For us, it means: 

• Do not leave your home or residence to go to work unless you have been informed by your supervisor that your job supports “critical services,” as defined by the Governor’s order. 

• Do not visit others outside your home or residence unless there is an urgent need to do so. 

• You may leave your residence for critical needs, such as buying groceries, picking up medication, seeking medical care, and other necessities. Providing care or support for a friend or family member in need is also allowed. 

• If you do need to leave your home to address a critical need or for outdoor activities, continue to practice social distancing (staying at least six feet away from others). 

University Operations and Exceptions for “Essential On-Campus Staffing” Plan

Earlier this week, we communicated with you that we are now in an Extended Reduced Operations status. That status includes identifying positions designated as “Essential on-campus roles.” Only those of us whose positions have this designation (and received this direction from your supervisors) will continue to work on campus until further notice. The University was granted explicit exemptions in the Governor’s order that include, but are not limited to, all 16 critical infrastructure worker categories identified by the Department of Homeland Security.  

In the case of the University, this includes staff required to provide: clinical patient care; childcare for health care workers and first responders; power plant and system utility operations; minimal sustaining care to irreplaceable research animals; staff specially trained to maintain hazardous or very high-value research equipment and materials; information technology and data center support; critical maintenance of University facilities and equipment; public safety; housing and dining services and others as designated under our Extended Reduced Operations status. 

Prior to today’s announcement, the University communicated with the Governor and his staff about the University’s Essential on-campus services and employees. I appreciate the Governor’s willingness to accept our recommendations to ensure the safety and health of our students remaining on campus and our critical healthcare and research needs. 

For our students who have no other viable housing options and remain in on-campus residence halls or apartments, please note that University housing and dining facilities will continue to be accessible to you. For students and staff who remain on campus, know that law enforcement and other emergency response personnel will continue to keep our University community safe and secure. 

Other University Actions 

Based on Governor Walz’s action and emergency declarations already issued by the state and local governments in our campus communities, I am planning to declare a state of emergency at the University of Minnesota pending Board of Regents action. This declaration does not change our Extended Reduced Operations status. It should not change how you’ve been approaching your teaching, learning, or work since our response to this public health challenge started. This declaration does trigger some important human resources policies, among others, that may be needed by a few of you at some point, such as an updated University emergency leave provision. This declaration also allows the University to seek state and federal resources to respond to COVID-19. 

We will continue to update this FAQ on our Safe Campus website as we learn more about this order and its impact on our community—but please know that we have been preparing for this moment so the disruption should be minimal to most of you. 

#StayHomeMN 

Today’s announcement requires all of us to stay home as much as possible and to do our part to change the course of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the University, you have shown that anything—even this—can be possible if we are creative, committed, and take care of each other. I continue to be humbled and inspired by how you have pulled together in recent weeks. Please continue to share your successes using #UMNProud, and encourage others to #StayHomeMN. 

Be healthy, safe, and well. 

With warmest regards, 
Joan Gabel 