---
title: Move out changes and updating your housing status
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-25
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oLm2xL6qcQKB4Uh-Bab2rgFumA1HTxPc/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear residents, 

Due to the Governor's stay at home order for Minnesota, and President Gabel's email clarifying procedures on campus, we must limit the options for move out. This change in move out procedure will not affect the status of the housing/dining credit. 

If you are currently living on campus and are able to return home or to another safe location with family or friends before 6 pm, Friday, March 27, please do so, whether you are able to move all of your belongings out or not. 

If you have moved off campus and are able to collect your belongings prior to Friday at 6 pm, you are welcome to do so. 

You may want to only bring what is easy to carry and get furniture and larger items later. Keep the following in mind for your safety and that of others: 

Maintain social distancing guidelines; 
stay six feet from others Coordinate with roommates in advance
 Limit the number of helpers you bring with you 

If you will continue living on campus at this time because it is the safest alternative, you are welcome. We are working to ensure proper social distancing and continued services for all. 

You are not required to return to campus at this time to retrieve your personal belongings. 

Your belongings will be secure until we re-open. Please know your belongings are safely locked in your room. Your first priority should be your own safety and health. If you are not staying with us, you will not have U Card access to your building until after the stay at home order is lifted. Look for an email in the coming weeks regarding information specific for your residence hall or apartment. 

Only students who have indicated that they need to stay will be able to access their assigned building and the assigned dining center during the stay at home order. Please continue to practice social distancing during this time. 

All residents must update their current housing status by 8pm, Thursday, March 26. We need to confirm if you have already moved out, need to stay, or are now unable to return to retrieve your belongings in the days to come. 

We know there have been many messages over the previous week about housing and dining. This quickly changing situation may have resulted in some confusion. Please know that your safety and peace of mind are our top priorities, and we are prioritizing those as we adapt our recommendations. View the University’s FAQ about the Governor’s stay at home order. 

Stay home, stay healthy, and be well. 

Housing & Residential Life 