---
title: I am an international student, if I have returned to my home country, will the University cancel my Tier 4 visa?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-23
link: >-
  https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus/faqs/students
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-sheffield.ac
---
In order for the University to carry on sponsoring your Tier 4 visa, we would need to maintain the requirements set by the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) and continue to monitor your engagement with your studies.

If you have already returned home and are able to engage with online study, submit your assignments, and you plan to return to the UK the University will not report your visa for cancellation. However, this has to be monitored carefully as the UK authorities may change their rules during this period. The University will have to follow the guidance of the UK Government on the continued sponsorship of Tier 4 visa students who have left the UK.

If you are unable to access online teaching from home and submit assignments due to unreliable internet access or resources, you will need to consider taking a leave of absence during this period, so that you are able to resume study once normal teaching resumes.

There is information on applying for leave of absence and the impact on your Tier 4 visa available on our website here: [How to apply for a leave of absence](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/ssid/immigration/during-study/change-of-status/leave-of-absence)

If taking a leave of absence will impact on your ability to complete your studies within the original course end date, the University will have to report your visa to UK Visas and Immigration. When you are due to return to the UK, the University will be able to support you by providing you with a CAS and help you in applying for a new Tier 4 visa.

If you have any concerns about your visa please contact the University’s [International Student Support Team](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/ssid/contacts/iss).

The Home Office has also set-up a helpline for international higher education staff and students if they have immigration queries related to coronavirus, including questions about urgent, compelling, compassionate cases where an international student or other visa national based abroad needs to travel to the UK.

The helpline can only speak to the visa holder or applicant about individual cases. If a third party wishes to speak on their behalf, they must have the visa holder’s permission. Call 0800 678 1767 (Monday to Friday, 9am to 5pm, calls free of charge) or email [CIH@homeoffice.gov.uk](mailto:CIH@homeoffice.gov.uk).
