---
title: Information for Future Students
subtitle: 
date:  
link: >-
  https://www.covid-19.unsw.edu.au/information-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unsw
---
While this is an uncertain time for us all, UNSW remains operational and dedicated to providing a world-class education for all our students. 

With physical isolation measures likely to continue for several months, we’ve transitioned all courses to online teaching until further notice. We’re also working to migrate as many aspects of our campus community as possible into the virtual space.

As a potential applicant or offer holder, this means you can **commence your studies with us** **no matter where you are in the world** and then join us on campus again when it is safe to do so.

Take advantage of this time to get a head start on your studies – apply or accept your offer today.

### Latest advice for commencing students – Term 2 2020

**Term 2 starts Monday 1 June 2020.**

As we anticipate that face-to-face teaching will remain suspended at the start of Term 2, we plan to **offer all classes online**. For both domestic and international students, if you commence a course online, you will be able to complete the course online. 

If we can safely and satisfactorily restart face-to-face teaching during the Term, we will do so. Attendance at these classes will be encouraged, but not compulsory. 

We remain committed to enabling the best possible educational experience the circumstances allow and look forward to welcoming you into our amazing community soon.
