---
title: Plans for summer term and additional University resources
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-16
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.miami.edu/updates-and-messages/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-miami
---
Dear Students, Faculty, and Staff:  
  
The University of Miami continues to proactively respond to the COVID-19 pandemic to safeguard the health and safety of our community and the broader communities we serve, and to plan for the future. In an effort to keep the University community continuously informed, we write to provide you with an update regarding summer term course delivery and additional University resources.  
  
 **SUMMER AND FALL TERMS**  
Registration for the summer and fall terms opened this week. To prioritize safety and health, the University will conduct summer sessions that begin in May online, including Summer A and Summer C. Select courses in Summer C may transition to on-campus instruction later in the summer if it is deemed safe to do so.  
  
We are happy to announce that additional courses have been added to the summer schedule to ensure we are offering courses students need and want. The Registrar’s office worked jointly with the academic deans to identify courses most popular among students, as well as courses needed for academic progress. Periodically, the Registrar’s office will send an email to students to introduce newly offered courses, and we encourage you to look for those emails.  
  
At present, there are no changes to the fall semester schedule or course offerings. We will continue to evaluate the public health emergency, working closely with government and public health agencies, to determine if changes to the academic calendar or manner of course delivery are needed. Any changes will be communicated directly to the University community.  
  
As always, students are strongly encouraged to discuss their course selections with their academic advisors.  
  
 **LEARNING RESOURCES**  
The University has created additional support for remote technologies that allow faculty and students to continue their teaching and learning activities. To learn more, visit [it.miami.edu/continuity](https://it.miami.edu/continuity/index.html "it.miami.edu/continuity").  
  
 **STAYING CONNECTED**  
We encourage you to continue to monitor the latest University updates regarding the COVID-19 pandemic response at [coronavirus.miami.edu](../index.html "coronavirus.miami.edu"). And we encourage students to take advantage of the many virtual programs and resources available at [miami.edu/stayconnected](https://miami.edu/stayconnected "miami.edu/stayconnected").  
  
 **ANSWERING QUESTIONS**  
The University has formed a team of dedicated staff members to answer students’ questions. Please visit [canescentral.miami.edu](https://canescentral.miami.edu/index.html "canescentral.miami.edu") for more information or to submit your question. Faculty and staff should reach out to their manager or [HR Partner](https://my.hr.miami.edu/contact-hr/hr-representatives/index.html "HR Partner") with any questions.  
  
We remain committed to the health and safety of our community and to fulfilling our mission of education, research, innovation, and service. Together, we will forge ahead as a resilient, compassionate, and united Hurricanes community.
