---
title: Assessment and grading
subtitle: 
date:  
link: >-
  https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/coronavirus/information-for-all-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unimelb
---
All assessment for Semester 1 will be conducted remotely. For some subjects, remote assessment might not require any change at all to the assessment methods, but for many subjects it will.

Your subject coordinators will give you advice on any changes to assessment tasks and assessment timing by Friday 17 April.  They will also provide advice and support if there is any special technology or preparation needed for particular forms of assessment. For half-year subjects, this advice will apply to all assessment tasks. For full-year subjects, subject coordinators will provide advice on any changes to assessment that is conducted within the Semester 1 period.

In selecting our assessment methods, the University will ensure that these fully assess the learning objectives for subjects and meet the usual high standards of academic integrity, with appropriate supervision, for validly and reliably assessing individual student learning.  The University’s arrangements for full online learning and appropriate remote assessment will allow the grading of student performance using the existing grading schema and the proper recognition of student learning. As an additional check, the grade distributions for subjects in Semester 1 will be carefully monitored by University leadership, the Academic Board and subject coordinators.

The University will include percentage marks for subjects undertaken in Semester 1 in the calculation of Weighted Average Marks (WAMs) [using the existing method](https://universityofmelbourne.createsend1.com/t/i-l-xthhhuk-l-y). Again, University leadership and the Academic Board will closely monitor grade and percentage mark distributions after the completion of Semester 1 assessment and prior to the award of final grades. If any universal changes to the calculation of WAMs are warranted based on the evidence in the available data, the decision and the reasons for it will be quickly communicated.
