---
title: How is LSE ensuring no student is at detriment in the assessment period?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-23
link: >-
  https://info.lse.ac.uk/coronavirus-response/assessment-faqs
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-lse.ac
---
We have adjusted the assessment process for Summer Term by putting a range of measures in place to ensure we are not disadvantaging students, whilst maintaining equity and academic standards and retaining the value of LSE degrees. This is LSE’s approach to ensuring no student is at detriment, which is tailored to our specific School context. 

We are committed to providing you both with the flexibility and support to take assessment when it feels most suitable for you, depending on your personal situation.

We have taken into account the individual circumstances you may be facing in a number of ways, as outlined by the revised assessment schedule and flexible methods of assessment we have introduced. We have also:  

  * **Made it easier to defer   **  
The extension, deferral and exceptional circumstances policy has been updated for 2020 to allow you defer online without needing to provide evidence, with no detriment to you.  
  * **Given exam boards greater discretion when making final classification decisions   **  
Exam boards will have the opportunity to exercise discretion for students at the time of making final classification decisions to account for COVID-19 related disruptions.   
  
Overall marks will be reviewed at the time of marking, with this year’s events very much in mind and with compassion. This will be without the need for students to submit additional Exceptional Circumstance requests related, for example, to the general impact of changes to assessment mode or the wider impact on everyone of C-19, and regardless of whether students are a finalist this year, or in future years.   
  
Students should however continue to use the [Exceptional Circumstances](https://info.lse.ac.uk/current-students/services/assets/documents/Student-guidance-Extensions-Deferrals-and-ECs.pdf) process to report unforeseen circumstances that occurred at the time of the assessment that had a significant detrimental impact on their individual performance.


