---
title: Friday, April 17, 2020 - From the Dean of Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-17
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Dear off-campus students,

As the spring semester begins to wind down over the next month, you might be making plans for how to move out of your off-campus residence in Oxford and/or safely retrieve your belongings. We hope the following information will help you take care of business while supporting the community health of your peers and the many families who live in Oxford.

**If you are still in Oxford, or will be returning in the next month to move out of your off-campus residence:**

  * You should quarantine for 14 days if you are traveling from another state.
  * As you plan your own move-out, please take these steps to comply with public health orders and reduce your risk: 
    * Coordinate move out with housemates to allow for social distancing (6’ apart); keep groups under 10 individuals.
    * Practice good hygiene—cover coughs, wash hands frequently, and don’t touch your face.
    * Wear a cloth face mask.
    * Don’t let others who are sick help you move.
    * Bring your own cleaning supplies. Clean frequently touched surfaces; specifically, clean the inside of the moving truck cab with EPA-approved disinfectant cleaners. Pay special attention to the door handle, steering wheel, seat, and knobs.
  * Please see the City of Oxford’s [move out tips](https://www.cityofoxford.org/news/2020/04/helpful-tips-moving-out-or-leaving-oxford). Notify the City of Oxford to turn off utilities and/or if you have excessive trash that needs to be removed. Trash must be in receptacles and follow Rumpke guidelines.



While ShareFest Oxford is not happening this year, consider donating nonperishable food to [Talawanda Oxford Pantry & Social Services (TOPSS)](https://sites.google.com/view/topsspantry/home) and household items in good condition to Goodwill in Oxford.

**If you aren't able to return to Oxford by the end of your lease:**

You may choose to hire a third party vendor such as [Campus Solutions](https://www.gocampussolutions.com/) to arrange packing, storing, or shipping your belongings. There is a cost for this service; if you are interested, please work directly with Campus Solutions for estimates and arranging service. The company is offering a $50 discount to Miami students.

**Health District Order's Enforcement:**

The Oxford Police Department is actively monitoring our community for gatherings over 10 individuals. They will issue citations for flagrant or repeat violations. Court dates for these violations may be held after graduation.

**While you may be tempted to come back to Oxford for social reasons, now is the time to demonstrate your love and care for your friends and classmates by keeping your distance.**

Please do your part for the Oxford community you love: practice social distancing, follow Ohio public health orders, and make healthy decisions.

Very Sincerely,

Kimberly A. Moore, Ed.D.  
Associate Vice President and Dean of Students
