---
title: "Last updated 23 Apr 2020 12:47pm"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-04-23
link: >-
  https://www.monash.edu/news/coronavirus-updates
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-monash
---
**Last updated 23 Apr 2020 12:47pm**

Exams and assessment:

  * Students could previously withdraw from a unit up until 12 June. This withdrawal meant that the unit was not recorded on a student’s transcript. Students will now be able to withdraw from the unit without academic penalty after they receive their results. In semester one 2020, fail grades will not be recorded on academic transcripts nor count towards the Grade Point Average (GPA) or Weighted Average Mark (WAM).
  * We are establishing an Academic Safety Net working group made up of students and staff to make recommendations to the Academic Board about grading matters for semester one 2020.
  * We are developing our own platform for remote exam supervision, to be managed by Monash staff.



Student compassionate and hardship package:

  * We recently announced a $15 million Student Compassionate and Hardship Package for students suffering financial hardship due to COVID-19.
  * Eligible students can apply and may be eligible for up to $7500 in payments: 
    * An emergency payment of up to $500.
    * A payment of up to $7000 available to students who are experiencing critical financial hardship, for example, those who have lost their income and can no longer afford accommodation, living expenses, or other necessities to complete their studies.
    * A payment of up to $5000 available to students who have incurred reasonable costs in China, Iran or Australia associated with the original inbound bans on travel from these countries.
  * Further information on eligibility and access is available on our [Financial assistance site](https://www.monash.edu/financial-assistance/support/student-grants/compassionate-hardship-package).


