---
title: Programming and Operational Updates
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-10
link: >-
  http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#utm_source=gatech_home&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=coronavirus_campus
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-gatech
---
    

Dear Georgia Tech Community:

As announced last week, all institutions within the University System of Georgia, including Georgia Tech, will continue online courses during May and the summer semesters, with only limited exceptions. Limited campus operations also continue to be in place until further notice, with only minimal staff physically on-site to ensure continuity of certain services.

As such, programming, events, and services traditionally held on Georgia Tech’s campus during the summer have been moved online, postponed, or canceled. More details will follow, but several affected programs include:

**Postal Services**  
Due to the variability of departmental operating hours and much of campus working remotely, campus mail delivery has been suspended until further notice. During this time, faculty and staff who have critical time-sensitive material can pick up mail and packages Monday-Friday from 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. from the Mail Processing Center (MPC), located at 711 Marietta Street NW, Atlanta, GA 30332. Please call ahead at 404-385-4174 before picking up your parcels. Mail and packages will be delivered to recipients outside the entrance to the MPC to limit contact. More information about operations is available on [Tech's Post Office website](https://studentcenter.gatech.edu/georgia-tech-post-office).

**FASET Orientation**  
All FASET orientation programs for new first-year and transfer students will be offered online this summer. Updates to the schedule of dates and a detailed day-of-schedule program will be forthcoming in the next few days. Additionally, there will be optional programs offered online by departments during the summer, and in-person sessions offered during the Week of Welcome.

**iGniTe First-Year Summer Launch Program**  
The iGniTe Summer Launch program for incoming first-year students who will begin Georgia Tech during the summer session will be offered online. Students will take two online courses, plus an online version of GT1000 First-Year Seminar. Online community-building and co-curricular activities are under development to enhance the program.  

**Wreck Camp iGniTe and Wreck Camp ATL**  
Wreck Camp iGniTe (Wreck Camp for iGniTe participants), and Wreck Camp ATL are canceled. As of now, Wreck Camp Odyssey, the four-day extended orientation program, is still scheduled for August 5-8. Students who have already registered for either Wreck Camp iGniTe or Wreck Camp ATL will be asked if they would like to move their registration to Wreck Camp Odyssey.

**Georgia Tech Athletic Association (GTAA) Events**  
External GTAA summer events, including athletic camps normally held on campus, have been indefinitely postponed. If circumstances permit, a revised summer camp schedule will be issued at a later date. GTAA summer academic activities offered to our cohort of incoming student-athletes will be moved online.

**Conference Services**  
Summer conferences hosted by the Department of Housing and Residence Life have been canceled for Summer 2020.  

**Tech Wreck Day Camp**  
A decision about Tech Wreck Day Camp, hosted by the Campus Recreation Center, will be made at a later date.

**CEISMC and College-Hosted K-12 Summer Camps**  
These camps are being evaluated separately, and further guidance about these programs will be shared as it becomes available.

We will continue to keep you updated on affected programs and activities.

 
