---
title: Participation requirements
subtitle: 
date:  
link: >-
  https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/coronavirus/information-for-all-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unimelb
---
On 17 March the University communicated to subject coordinators that in regard to physical attendance, participation and engagement requirements it was anticipated that in most circumstances, at the time, these should be waived for first half year subjects, as approved by the President of the Board.  Staff were also advised at the time that if existing participation requirements were essential components of the teaching and learning — that is, necessary for meeting the intended learning outcomes — alternate means of assessment would need to be explored where practicable and published in the LMS on or before 17 April 2020.

With the move now to a full virtual campus, it may be appropriate in some subjects for there to be expectations or requirements for participation and engagement in  _asynchronous_ activities. Asynchronous participation and engagement offers students flexibility across time zones and provides protection against any technical issues that might occur from time to time in synchronous settings.

Participation and engagement requirements for  _synchronous_ classroom activities should be waived in most circumstances, though there may be situations in which these requirements are necessary for meeting the intended learning outcomes. Subject coordinators will advise you. Again, all changes to participation requirements must be published in the LMS by 17 April.

As communicated previously, the University’s policy and procedures for [Special Consideration](https://universityofmelbourne.createsend1.com/t/i-l-xthhhuk-l-j) will continue to apply. These cover a wide range of circumstances that may have affected student progress.
