---
title: Message to WashU students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-15
link: >-
  https://emergency.wustl.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/message-to-students-04-15-20.pdf
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-wustl
---
Dear Students,

We hope this finds you and your families well, as we all are navigating this very uncertain time. You continue to inspire us with your determination and resilience, and we are so proud to see the many ways you are rising to the challenges of the current situation, and how you are adapting to the tremendous changes that have taken place over such a short period of time. Thank you for your optimism and courage, and for your support for our efforts as we work to make the best of these difficult circumstances.

As we continue to prioritize the health and safety of our community, we’re constantly reviewing new developments and making adjustments to university policies and procedures. With summer fast approaching, we’re writing today to share with you some important updates about summer programming. These changes are significant and we know they will create disruption and disappointment for many of you, but we believe they are necessary in order to keep our community safe. The following policies will apply to summer activity on campus and internationally.

Summer programming

All in-person summer programming will be suspended until at least August 1. Where possible, programming will be postponed or transitioned online. Students who were approved in March to remain in the residence halls and continue to have circumstances that prevent them from returning home will be allowed to stay over the summer.

This suspension includes, but may not be limited to, the following:

• All in-person classroom, lab or studio instruction or use of these spaces
• All in-person undergraduate research
• All in-person graduate research, except as was previously approved as essential
when the university shifted to alternate operations status
• All student on-campus programming and activities, including athletics
• All conferences and camps, regardless of whether there is an in-residence
component
• All in-person university-sponsored events, whether on campus or off campus
• Use of university space for events, whether hosted by a university department or
by an outside entity
• Student workers, unless they are working remotely

Summer study abroad and international academic experiences

Summer study abroad and international academic experiences will be significantly scaled back, in large part because of the unpredictability of evolving travel advisories and restrictions. Students who were planning to participate in an international summer program should instead find a remote or local academic or professional opportunity. Career Center and academic advisors remain available to help assist you with identifying other opportunities. The following policies will guide our activities:

• All university-owned and operated study abroad and international academic experiences for undergraduates and graduates are canceled or postponed for Summer 2020.
• For programs operated by third-party providers, undergraduate applications may continue with acceptance and terms of participation, in locations not affected by university international travel restrictions( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10e44x317a78x0740& ).
• Summer undergraduate international research awards will be deferred until after Summer 2020.
• Summer graduate and professional student international research and individualized academic programming must be requested and approved through a petition process and the protocols per the university’s international travel policy.

These policies are based on the information that is available to us at this time. They may be updated at a later date if there are changes to Stay at Home orders or other institutional, state or federal restrictions in response to the pandemic. Your school deans will be in touch with additional information about specific programs. Please know we also are working on making decisions about the fall semester, and will communicate with you about those plans as soon as we can.

Please know that as difficult as these decisions may be, we’ve made them with your health and well-being as our highest priority. We will continue to closely evaluate this situation as it develops, and will do all we can to ensure your safety during this challenging time. We send all our best wishes to you and your families.

Sincerely,

Marion G. Crain
Interim Provost & Executive Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs
Wiley B. Rutledge Professor of Law

Lori S. White
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs
