---
title: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-26
link: >-
  https://wexnermedical.osu.edu/-/media/files/wexnermedical/features/corona-virus-university-updates/together-as-buckeyes-emergency-grants-available42120.pdf?la=en&hash=5B3C66DBDCCC4EA22CB498D605E2A89E5BEE7E2F
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-osu
---
Dear Students:

Ohio State is launching the Together As Buckeyes emergency grants program. Using both university funds and support from the federal CARES Act, this program will assist students who are having difficulty with living expenses or facing other unexpected financial challenges related to the disruption of campus operations due to this pandemic.

We recognize that COVID-19 has had broad impacts, so this program is available to any student — undergraduate, graduate or professional at any campus — who has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

To apply for a grant, complete the one-page Emergency Request form( https://sfa.osu.edu/form-files/OSU_2020_Emergency_Fund_Application.pdf ) and provide any supporting documentation. The Office of Student Financial Aid is prepared to respond quickly to applications after determining eligibility based on each student’s circumstances and guidance from the U.S. Department of Education.

I admire your resilience and commitment to our academic and service missions during this extraordinary time. We will get through this #TogetherAsBuckeyes.

Sincerely,

Michael V. Drake, MD

Emergency Grants

• Who is eligible: Any Ohio State undergraduate, graduate or professional student, at any campus, who has been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
• What grants can be used for: Students may use funds for expenses related to the disruption of campus operations as a result of the coronavirus such as food, housing, course materials, technology, health
care and child care.
• How to apply: Complete the Emergency Request form( https://sfa.osu.edu/form-files/OSU_2020_Emergency_Fund_Application.pdf ).
• How grants will be awarded: If approved, funds will be disbursed to you via direct deposit or paper check. Students are encouraged to set up direct deposit in My Buckeye Link( https://buckeyelink.osu.edu/ ). All other refunds will be mailed to the student’s permanent address on file.

More information: Contact Buckeye Link at 614-292-0300 or email buckeyelink@osu.edu.