---
title: Danforth Campus Digest
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-10
link: >-
  https://emergency.wustl.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/danforth-campus-digest-4-10-20.pdf
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-wustl
---
This digest is a compilation of important COVID-19 related news and updates for students, faculty and staff on the Danforth Campus. We’ll send this to our community as needed to share new information, including important steps members of the Danforth Campus community must take to help protect the health and well-being of our community. Thank you for your attention to these communications, and for your continued support of our response efforts.

Employee and contractor safety

Keeping our community safe is the university’s highest priority. Departments with employees and contractors whose physical presence is required on campus to deliver essential services are utilizing safety protocols specific to the pandemic.

These are regularly reviewed and modified when new information or guidance is available. Supplemental safety efforts that have been implemented include job-site symptom pre-screening and reporting systems, social distancing, the use of additional personal protective equipment as applicable, and robust response protocols. Learn more on the Employee Information section( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x316ae0x0322& ) of the COVID-19 FAQs.

Give thanks to medical personnel and first responders

Members of the university community are invited to send messages of gratitude, encouragement and support to be shared with medical personnel and first responders who are on the front lines.

Knight Center

Olin Business School invites the WashU community to share messages for medical personnel and first responders staying at Knight Center while working amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Please put “WashU Thanks” in the subject line and email your message to wools@ wustl.edu.

Medical Campus

You can also send messages to be shared at the Medical Campus on digital screens, on a special “wall of hope” and in social media. View details and upload your cards and well wishes on the Human Resources website( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x3178b0x0322& ).

Online staff professional development

Our HR Learning and Development program has adapted to the university’s alternate operations, offering special Zoom sessions in the “Virtual Learning Room.” These sessions cover topics such as managing through change and adaptability, and are offered weekly. Course registration and other learning tools are available on the online learning web page( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x3178b1x0322& ).

Find more resources to support your health, mental health, wellness, learning and financial well-being on the employee well-being support hub( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x317666x0322& ).

Know how to sew? You can help the community

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has recommended the use of cloth face coverings( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x3178b2x0322& ) to help slow the spread of COVID-19. Members of the university community who know how to sew, and who have supplies on hand, are invited to help sew masks that will be made available in the community for nonmedical use.

Learn more about how to participate on The Source( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x3178b3x0322& ).

Making a difference in St. Louis

From providing exceptional patient care, tutoring and virtual visits with older adults to advising local governments and supporting the economy, our faculty, students and staff are stepping up in response to COVID-19. Learn more about the university’s efforts in the St. Louis region in The Source( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x317722x0322& ).

Learn about the university’s response to COVID-19

The latest research and news stories related to the COVID-19 pandemic are available on The Source( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x32780x0322& ). You can also share your own photo, video or personal story( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x3178b4x0322& ).

We appreciate your ongoing support and cooperation as we manage this unprecedented situation. Please continue to visit the university’s COVID-19 website( https://mailingsresponse.wustl.edu/trk/click?ref=z1030up2e7_2-10dc8x31689cx0322& ) for the latest information.
