---
title: Information for Students
subtitle: I have heard that exams are not going ahead. What does this mean for me / what should I do?
date: 2020-04-23
link: >-
  http://www.qub.ac.uk/home/coronavirus-faqs/information-for-students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qub
---
As part of the University’s on-going efforts to minimise the spread of COVID-19 (coronavirus) amongst the University community, formal examinations scheduled to take place on  campus  during the Second Semester 2019-20 will not go ahead. We are arranging alternative methods of assessment for modules for which an examination would normally have been scheduled.  Your School will be in touch with you via email before the end of next week (27 March 2020) to confirm the alternative forms of remote assessment which will apply to your modules during this period.   **We understand that you have many questions but would ask that you wait until your School is in touch with you directly next week, in order to allow them to focus on putting in place your assessment arrangements.   We know this is an issue of concerns to students and we are working hard to put in place solutions for you in order to progress in what is a very unusual set of circumstances.**

Students will be expected to undertake the alternative assessments in order to complete the requirements of affected modules.  Where students are exceptionally unable to undertake an alternative assessment, other arrangements will be made.  **Again please wait until your School is in touch with you before asking further questions about your alternative assessments.  **

You do not need to do anything at this stage other than to prepare for assessment as normal.
