---
title: Winter term and Semester 2 arrangements
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-17
link: >-
  https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/coronavirus/information-for-all-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unimelb
---
The University is actively planning to resume on campus learning in Semester 2 for all undergraduate, graduate, domestic, international, commencing and returning students. Should the COVID-19 situation continue to develop, the University will advise students of any changes that may be made to the Semester 2 teaching program as a result.

The University is actively considering teaching and learning options for Winter Semester and Semester 2. We will advise current and future students and staff on the University’s position as soon as possible.

#### Future students

To support future students, we are working through a range of scenarios to minimise the impact that COVID-19 may have had upon your plans to commence studies at the University of Melbourne. We will post updates on this page as advice becomes available including information about:

  * What happens if your qualifying degree, associated prerequisites or other entry requirements for graduate coursework and research are impacted.
  * What happens if your final year secondary school qualification has been significantly disrupted.
  * What happens if you are unable to sit an entry exam for entry into a course, including English language tests.
  * The provision of conditional Confirmations of Enrolment (CoEs) for international students where final documentation might not be available
  * What the course offer acceptance process for international students will be, including arrangements for fee deposits.



Graduate research students can apply for and proceed with a Semester 2 commencement where you can effectively engage in your proposed studies with appropriate supervision and guidance.  However, enrolment in laboratory-based projects or disciplines will require the approval of the relevant Dean or their delegate.  If you need to defer your commencement, you should discuss this with your supervisor.Please note that the [Semester 2, 2020 academic calendar](https://students.unimelb.edu.au/your-course/manage-your-course/key-dates "https://students.unimelb.edu.au/your-course/manage-your-course/key-dates") has been adjusted following the changes to Semester 1, 2020 academic calendar.

#### Current students

Current students should continue to plan for studies in Semester 2 so that you can make progress toward the completion of your course.

You are encouraged to consider your Semester 2 subject options in the [Handbook](https://handbook.unimelb.edu.au/search?types%5B%5D=subject&year=2020&level_type%5B%5D=all&campus_and_attendance_mode%5B%5D=all&org_unit%5B%5D=all&page=1&sort=_score%7Cdesc) and can book a [phone appointment for course advice](https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/advice-and-help/stop-1/course-advice-and-enrolment-assistance-at-stop-1).

Please note that the [Semester 2, 2020 academic calendar](https://students.unimelb.edu.au/your-course/manage-your-course/key-dates "https://students.unimelb.edu.au/your-course/manage-your-course/key-dates") has been adjusted following the changes to Semester 1, 2020 academic calendar.
