---
title: Message From Office of Academic Affairs
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-01
link: >-
  https://wexnermedical.osu.edu/-/media/files/wexnermedical/features/corona-virus-university-updates/040120-summer-term--provost.pdf?la=en&hash=680D9D1D065032F4919187078A2C19975AEDC2A6
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-osu
---
Dear Students, Faculty and Staff,

In light of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, The Ohio State University will deliver all courses through virtual modes of teaching and learning for the Summer 2020 term. 

The summer term will start and end one week later than originally published. Classes will start on May 13 and end on July 31. Finals will take place Aug. 3 5, and summer commencement will be Aug. 9. 

We have made this decision in consultation with college and regional campus leadership to provide certainty for Ohio State students, faculty and staff about plans for the summer term. We cannot yet predict when current restrictions on our campuses will ease, so we are moving forward to provide a consistent academic experience for the summer term.

Ohio State’s highest priority is the health and well-being of our community, and the university is following public health guidance in all decisions. At the same time, we continue to adapt so that all members of the university community can continue in their academic progress.

Summer term courses — including lectures, labs, discussion sections, seminars and other similar classroom settings — will be offered through virtual modes of instruction. Please note that courses will be offered under the university’s traditional grading systems; pass/no pass options for spring semester were limited to that term. The university will continue to evaluate whether clinical experiences for relevant disciplines, graduate research and experiences supporting creative inquiry can be safely reinitiated within the summer term. Departments and schools are encouraged to engage directly with their particular college curricular dean, who is working with W. Randy Smith, vice provost for academic programs.

Thank you and be well.

Sincerely,

Bruce A. McPheron, PhD
Executive Vice President and Provost