---
title: General information for students
subtitle: How will the no-detriment ‘safety net’ policy work?
date: 2020-03-31
link: >-
  https://news.liverpool.ac.uk/coronavirus-advice-and-guidance/students/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-liv.ac
---
**Please note: Following the decision to implement a ‘safety net’ policy, there is ongoing much work to be done to operationalise this new policy. Staff are working hard to develop guidance for you and we hope this will be complete in the next two weeks. We will share more information with you then.**

At its heart this approach means that Examination Boards will determine whether individual assessments have been _affected_ or _unaffected_. All work submitted after 15 March will be considered to be affected by COVID-19 disruption. Some of your work prior to this date may be classed as affected by industrial action, depending on the level of disruption your Department(s) experienced.

Providing you attain a minimum pass mark overall for the year, calculated from all your completed assessments in 2019/20, including any you still need to complete, then we will calculate two overall marks for you as follows:

  1. Your overall average for all your assessments in 2019/20, and
  2. Your overall average for assessments Examination Boards designated as unaffected by the move to online teaching or industrial action



The higher of these two averages will be used for progression and degree classification purposes. We believe that this is a fair way forward and means you will not be unduly disadvantaged by the present situation.

We would encourage you to continue to try your best in the coming period, as if you achieve higher marks in assessments submitted and examinations undertaken after Sunday, 15 March then you will be able to raise your mark for the year. Completing your remaining assessments can only help your average and not lower it. This will also apply to postgraduate students with assessments in the autumn, e.g. Masters dissertations.
