---
title: Federal CARES Act COVID-19 Financial Assistance for Students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-19
link: >-
  https://www.stevens.edu/directory/student-health-services/health-advisory-update/coronavirus-2019-covid-19-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-stevens
---
**To** : The Stevens Community   
**From** : Marybeth Murphy, Vice President for Enrollment Management and Student Affairs   
**Date** : May 19, 2020   
**Subject** : Federal CARES Act COVID-19 Financial Assistance for Students

Stevens has been awarded approximately $1.5 million from the federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act to assist eligible students experiencing unexpected financial challenges that occur as a result of the disruption of campus operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including food insecurity, housing, course materials, learning technology needs, health care and child-care expenses.

Students may apply for CARES Act emergency grants through the on-line [ COVID-19 Student Emergency Assistance Grant ](https://my.stevens.edu/Covid19StudentAssistance) application. Upon confirmation of a student’s eligibility, applications will be reviewed and a funding decision will be made. Applications must be received by June 15, 2020. If all funds are not expended or if additional funding becomes available, the application deadline may be extended. 

Emergency grants must be awarded in accordance with federal guidance, which requires that recipients are eligible for Title IV (federal) financial aid. To be eligible, students must currently have a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on file at Stevens. In addition, students must meet the following criteria to be considered for a grant:

  * Enrolled in the Spring 2020 semester as an undergraduate or graduate student in a degree program
  * Not enrolled in an exclusively online distance education program before March 11, 2020
  * Have or can demonstrate financial hardship caused by or because of the disruption of campus operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, based on expenses related to their cost of attendance, such as food, housing, course materials, technology, health care and child-care.



Students who are not Title IV eligible (i.e. international and undocumented students) and are experiencing financial challenges associated with the disruption of campus operations due to COVID-19 are encouraged to reach out to the following offices: Undergraduate Students: [ studentaffairs@stevens.edu ](mailto:student_life@stevens.edu) ; Graduate Students: [ graduatelife@stevens.edu ](mailto:graduatelife@stevens.edu) .

Thank you for your attention to this important announcement.
