---
title: Fall semester will be mostly remote
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-08
link: >-
  https://urgence.umontreal.ca/covid-19-en/
countryCode: ca
status: published
instituteSlug: ca-umontreal
---
**Dear members of teaching staff,**

**Dear members of administrative and support staff,**

I hope you're doing well under the exceptional circumstances we are facing today. Every passing week takes us further from the normal we have known, and the arrival of spring only accentuates the eery feeling that we share with people the world over. 

I'm writing to you today to announce that for the Fall 2020 semester, the University will operate largely in distance learning mode. Only some courses, or portions of courses, will be offered on campus. This decision was made, first and foremost, to protect the health of our community and the general public, particularly residents of the Island of Montréal, which has been hardest hit by the health crisis. 

There are also obvious logistical reasons for the decision to conduct most teaching remotely in the fall. An academic term requires considerable preparation and the upcoming Fall semester promises to be a tall organizational challenge. We are not the only ones to face this challenge: almost all Canadian and American universities are gearing up for a primarily distance-education fall. And our international partners have, for the most part, announced that they will not be holding activities that involve international travel this fall.

## Our plan 

The Vice-Rector of Student and Academic Affairs is currently working with all faculties and several services to ready our plan for the Fall semester. The purpose of the plan is to safeguard the health of our students and the quality of the education they receive. It will be organized around three central rules:

Rule 1: All teaching that can be done remotely should be. Our goal is to reduce density at our campuses by limiting the presence of students and employees to what is strictly necessary. 

Rule 2: The educational activities conducted on campus must be reduced in number and chosen with care. We will have to set strict priorities in deciding which activities can be conducted in person, taking into account the specificities of each type of teaching. Activities that are difficult or impossible to conduct remotely, such as clinical placements, teaching laboratories, some evaluations and, more generally, practical learning, will be given priority for in-person delivery. 

Rule 3: Teaching arrangements will be flexible. Some programs or faculties will offer more in-person courses than others because of the nature of the educational content. Even in the same course, some sessions may be given online and others on campus, with some or all of the students in attendance - especially for laboratory or studio activities. 

As you can see, we will have a hybrid approach which we will be able to adapt as the social and health situation develops. For example, in-person sessions could be taped, in accordance with applicable rules, for students who need to take their courses remotely, such as some students from other regions of Québec or international students who will not be able to be on campus in September.

## Constraints

The decision on which courses will be held in person will have to respect the principles that have guided us since the beginning of this crisis, starting with the health and safety of our community and our fellow citizens. 

Keeping a two-metre distance between people will be a challenge in and of itself. To follow this rule, we estimate that we will have to use our classrooms at approximately 20% capacity. For example, the big Jean-Lesage hall at 3200 Jean-Brillant, which has 566 seats, will only be able to accommodate 100 students. The problem will be just as acute in small classrooms and seminar rooms, and it will pertain to all our campuses. 

Clearly, space constraints limit our ability to accommodate activities on campus and will force us to reduce the number of courses on campus considerably. Not to mention other equally complex issues, such as getting to the university by public transit and managing the movement of people on our campuses. Cleaning classrooms after each class will be a considerable coordination and resource allocation challenge by itself. 

## Support

To maintain the quality of education under these circumstances, we will have to create more fully online courses and optimize the use of technological teaching tools. These are two objectives that we will not be able to achieve without giving our professors and lecturers more support. 

In addition to the many tools that we have deployed since the beginning of this crisis for our teaching staff and the training in distance education that is already being offered in the form of webinars, we will, for example, add audio and video taping equipment in hundreds of rooms on campus and hire many teaching assistants. The pedagogical support units that have been set up within the faculties will continue their work.

## By the end of the month

For now, the most pressing matter for our faculties is to determine which courses, or portions of courses, will have to be taught on campus with students present in person in the fall. This process must be completed by the end of the month, which will then give professors and lecturers time to prepare their courses. Our occupational health and safety services will have the summer to plan health measures. 

In this regard, we are very fortunate to have public health experts in the university community. They are guiding us in assessing the situation and adopting preventive measures tailored to our situation as a university. With proper preparation, we will be able to ensure that our students achieve the learning objectives safely and in accordance with the standards of excellence for which our programs are renowned.

We have our work cut out for us. I thank you all in advance for the enormous effort we will have to make in the coming weeks to prepare for the fall. Never has the word "mission" been more apt to describe what a university does. 

You will receive more messages in the coming weeks describing in greater detail the measures that will be taken for the fall. In the meantime, please write to us at urgence@umontreal.ca if you have any questions. And check out our regularly updated FAQ. As well, FAQs for individual faculties and services, which provide answers to more specific questions, have now been added. 

[ French version here](https://urgence.umontreal.ca/evenement/article/166402/)
