---
title: What if I want to go home while face-to-face teaching has been suspended?
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-08
link: >-
  https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/coronavirus/faqs/students
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-sheffield.ac
---
The government has advised that travel home within the UK is no longer classed as essential. Students still in the city, whether in University or private accommodation, are advised by the government to remain where they are currently living and follow social distancing rules.

If you have already returned home, the University will continue to support you as best we can including, providing online learning so that this minimises the disruption it will have on your studies. If returning home rather than remaining at the University meant leaving the UK, we cannot guarantee access to online learning from every country.

**Please inform the University where you are living during the Coronavirus outbreak, and if you have needed to self isolate, by**[ **completing this form.**](http://forms.gle/trMF21jSKbBphycQ6)

For those students in our international community who remain in Sheffield, please be assured that you are welcome to stay here with us.

While face-to-face teaching has been suspended for the current and next (third) semester, students who wish to stay in Sheffield or their University accommodation will still be able to access student support services and other resources online as campus buildings are now closed.

If you have returned home rather than remaining at the University , please follow the following guidance:

  1. Contact your academic department to advise of your departure and stay in contact with them about your plans.
  2. Ensure that you are able to keep up with your studies. You will need a computer and reliable internet connection which allows access to MOLE (Blackboard). More information can be found on [Student Guidance for Online Teaching.](https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/apse/digital/teachonlinestudents)
  3. If you are an international student on a Tier 4 visa, you should speak to your academic department to agree how you will be supported to complete your studies. Please also notify the International Student Support team using the [online form](http://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScCJAX9W5_jN7FGK5h2O_k4WtPcJKfwAbg6Dl4zxhryt1rTtw/viewform).



If you are unable to access teaching online from home or submit assignments, this will impact on your studies and for any international student, subsequently your Tier 4 visa also.

If you do choose to go home, you must tell your academic department and Global Opportunities at [globalopps@sheffield.ac.uk](mailto:globalopps@sheffield.ac.uk)
