---
title: Information if you are an Externally Registered student
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-15
link: >-
  https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/your-studies.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-birmingham.ac
---
**Guidance on the ways in which the Emergency Assessment/Progression Frameworks for Graduating and Continuing Cohorts can be applied to External Students.**

 **1.     ****Background**

We hope you and yours are well and are coping in these challenging times. We know that External Students are in a particularly difficult position as you consider how best to pick up your studies.

We have a very complex offer at the University of Birmingham, and a degree algorithm that has presented us with unique challenges as we attempt to balance the need to support our students with the requirement to ensure that your degree retains its integrity so it is valued by employers.

On the 3rd April, 2020 we published the University of Birmingham Emergency Assessment Framework for UG/PGT [**_Graduating_** Cohorts](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/Update-for-finalists-030420.aspx)

On the 22nd April, 2020 we published the University of Birmingham Emergency Progression Framework for [**_Continuing_** students ](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/your-studies.aspx)  

These Frameworks apply to all UG and PGT programmes, and they were focussed on the majority of students who are registered as internal students. The development of these frameworks was necessary because of the **cancellation of all campus-based examinations in the summer exam period** as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.

We had hoped that it might be possible to run a campus-based supplementary examination period later in the summer. Given that external students are already operating in the more challenging position of taking assessments relating to previous years of study, we were particularly keen to offer you the more familiar setting of campus-based examinations that could be designed and sat in the format you were expecting. At the very least, we thought we might be able to offer this opportunity to external students, perhaps in a campus-based albeit socially distanced configuration (because the number of external students is comparatively very low).

It now seems unlikely that campuses will be open for any students until September at the earliest. Even if we are able to open, we may not have sufficient advance warning to plan for and support you to take campus-based examinations. As a result, we need to attempt to accommodate as many External Students as possible in the emergency assessment/progression frameworks.  

 **2.     ****Who are External Students?**

If you are reading this, you are probably an External Student. It is important to remember, however, that ‘External Student’ is not a term that covers a homogenous group of students. Each of you is external for a different reason, and you will all be in different positions regarding the number of credits you are missing, the types of assessments you need to complete, and the need to meet any professional body requirements. This makes it unlikely that we will be able to apply a single framework that meets the needs of each of you in the same way.

 **3.     ****How will we accommodate External Students in the Emergency Assessment Frameworks?**

As you will recognise from the complexity of the External Student population, and the requirement in some cases to meet professional body requirements, this cannot be a simple one-size-fits-all approach. We can, however, apply the same broad principles to those that apply to internal students, and this will provide a framework within which you can consider your options and also have discussions with your Schools about the best way forward for you.

What follows is, firstly, information for graduating cohorts and, secondly, information for continuing students.

 **Information for Graduating Cohorts (UG and PGT)**

If you are potentially in a position to graduate this academic year and you were expecting to take examinations this summer, it is important to remind you that any replacement online assessments will be different to what you were expecting. If you would prefer to take examinations in the original format and on campus we will make this opportunity available to you at some point in the future but, at this moment, we cannot know when that would feasible.

 _The four principles that underpin the Assessment Framework for (internally registered) Graduating Cohorts are as follows:_

  * **No detriment** : we will ensure that as many students as reasonably possible are able to complete their degree, with a classification that is a fair reflection of their achievements.
  * **Reduced pressure** : We will reduce to a minimum the number of inclusive online assessments (to replace exams) that are required by a student.
  * **Inclusive assessments** : we will design assessments to be both flexible and inclusive (i.e. in the form of ‘open-book’ coursework that looks similar in format to an exam you were expecting or short tests with multiple windows for completion) to ensure they can be accessed and completed successfully by as many students as possible. We will also be setting extended time periods for completion to reflect the different needs of different students (RAPs, time zones etc.).
  * **Academic Integrity** : we have set a requirement that in order to graduate, we must have evidence that students have met the new emergency minimum credits in the final year (or taught credits for PGT), satisfied any professional body requirements, and met the Learning Outcomes for their Programme. Online inclusive assessments will only be set for students where they are missing any of those three critical elements, and in all cases we will keep this to the minimum needed (as noted above) to ensure the integrity of their degrees.



[Full details of the Framework can be found here](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/Update-for-finalists-030420.aspx)

 _For **internally registered** graduating students_, therefore, the Framework requires each graduating student to:

  * meet the reduced final year credit requirement _including_ the project/dissertation credits;
  * take online inclusive assessments if the minimum credit requirement is not yet met (number determined by the number and nature of missing credits);
  * PLUS meet all Programme Learning Outcomes;
  * PLUS satisfy any professional body/statutory requirements.



In taking this approach, we have been able to reduce the number of online ‘exams’ that any student is required to take. We have also committed to look at each individual student’s profile at examination boards to ensure we take into account a student’s whole marks profile – from all years – to ensure we can mitigate where we see evidence of negative impact from the pandemic.

 _For **externally registered** students who wish to graduate in 2020, we will – in the first instance - attempt to apply the same Framework. _

It is important to note, however, that some students are missing so many credits (100+ in some cases and/or the project/dissertation) that this approach might not be feasible or desirable. In these cases, students will need a more tailored approach with different timescales, and your School will be able to help you with this.  

 ** _What should you do next if you wish to graduate this year, and what will your School do?_**

a)    Contact your School to signal that you are aiming to graduate in 2020

b)    Have a discussion about your individual status (i.e. missing credits and professional body requirements) and the options available to you. In a minority of cases, you may find that you already meet the new emergency threshold requirements.

c)    **NOTE** : Your School will help you to determine your precise status in the context of the emergency assessment framework and the threshold requirements, you do not need to do this yourself.

d)    Your School will confirm exactly what you need to do next if you are able to graduate in 2020. NB: if you are required to replace missing credits/exams with online assessments, these may need to be adapted to your individual circumstances depending on whether the content of the modules has changed since you took them.

e)    Where further online assessments are required, your School will set them as soon as possible after you make contact and once they have established what is required in your specific case. The deadlines for submission will be set either within the original summer examination period (i.e. into mid-June) or up to the 31st August for those individuals who will need more time. Remember, these assessments will not be in the format of traditional on-campus exams (many are more like coursework) and they will be designed to ensure you have plenty of time for completion and in recognition of the online resources that are likely to be accessible to you. 

The first step, therefore, is the most important: make contact with your School so they can discuss your options with you.

 **Information for Continuing Students (UG and PGT)**

If you are a continuing student; i.e. a UG student progressing into next academic year from Year 1-2, 2-3 or 3-4 (and see separate guidance for 5 year professional programmes), or a part time PGT student, you have been progressed automatically without taking any examinations in the summer exam period. We are, however, setting formative Bridging Coursework to prepare you for your next year of study. In some professional courses, there are additional requirements to ensure you are able to meet any essential professional body requirements that are missing, and your School will let you know if these are required. It is also important to note that, for those students who have very few credits available from a previous year of study, you may be advised to undertake additional work to prepare you to be successful in the forthcoming year. 

The full details of the Emergency Progression Framework can be found [here](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/your-studies.aspx). Please read this document carefully, and ensure your School knows that you are planning to return to study next academic year. This will ensure you receive details of the Bridging Coursework that has been designed for your particular programme and whether there are any specific requirements relating to professional programmes or individual guidance to prepare you for your next year of study.  

 **4.     **   **Wellbeing**

This is a difficult period for everyone – including staff – so once you have made contact with your School to discuss your ambition to graduate or return to study, please be patient while they work out the best range of options for you.

Please note, we have updated our wellbeing webpages so it is easier for you to find the available support, including making contact with your school wellbeing officer.

[We have also updated all our COVID-19 FAQs so it is easier for you to find the information you need.](https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/Coronavirus-FAQs-for-students.aspx?_ga=2.164611263.1628639016.1586973006-1570197496.1569323288)

Prof Kathy Armour and the Senior Education Team

29th April, 2020.
