---
title: "Advisory: Guidance regarding phased reopening plans"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-05-15
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.miami.edu/updates-and-messages/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-miami
---
To the University of Miami Community,

On May 13, Miami-Dade County released “The New Normal” plan, which provides guidance for the phased reopening of Miami-Dade County beginning Monday, May 18, 2020; other local municipalities are beginning to release their reopening plans.

The University will review all plans that may impact our various campuses and community members, and will communicate any changes to our operations in advance. At this time, the University is not making any significant changes to its operations.

The following summarizes near-term guidance on University operations:

  
**There are no changes to current remote work guidelines.**

  * Staff who are able to work remotely on all campuses should continue to do so until further notice. Plans continue for a phased reopening of the Coral Gables and Marine campuses in preparation for a safe resumption of classes in the fall. These plans will balance the needs of on-site activities with a continued need to limit density on all campuses for the foreseeable future.
  * UHealth staff working in clinical services should continue to follow previously communicated reactivation plans, and stay informed about medical campus and health system operations on the [my.med.miami.edu](https://my.med.miami.edu/ "my.med.miami.edu") website.



 

**The University will continue existing health and safety measures on all campuses.**

For the Coral Gables and Marine campuses, the Facilities Operations and Planning team is working with University departments—academic and administrative—to plan for the safe restart of on-campus classes in the fall through the work of seven multi-disciplinary committees. The safety measures underway include:

  * Adding hand sanitizer stations at every building entrance and throughout high-traffic interior spaces
  * Installing additional disinfecting wipe stations throughout campuses
  * Posting signs to remind individuals of physical distancing guidelines and proper hygiene practices
  * Deploying wellness (plexiglass) shields at points of sale, office entry, select labs, and information desks
  * Conducting deep cleaning of all campus spaces regularly with enhanced protocols and increased frequency
  * Maintaining inventories of personal protective equipment and cleaning supplies
  * Procuring face coverings to distribute to every student, faculty, and staff member upon return to campus



The medical school and health system continue health and safety practices with the [reactivation of key clinical services](https://news.miami.edu/life/stories/2020/05/uhealth-reactivates-key-clinical-services.html "reactivation of key clinical services").

  
**There are no changes to virtual learning plans during the summer or the intent to safely resume on-campus classes in the fall.**

  * All summer classes will continue to meet virtually and course schedules will not change.
  * The University is exploring a broad range of available and emerging technology for COVID-19 screening, testing, and tracing that will support a safe campus environment in the fall.



 

**The University of Miami community should continue to practice physical distancing, wear face coverings, and follow personal protective equipment guidelines as defined by local emergency orders, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and other regulatory guidelines.**

  * The order strongly urges individuals to wear face coverings inside businesses and commercial establishments wherever physical distancing is not possible.



 

The complete Miami-Dade County plan can be found [here](https://www.miamidade.gov/information/library/new-normal.pdf "here").

Safety has been and will continue to be the top priority when making decisions regarding a safe reopening, and you will be informed of any changes in advance. Additional measures and guidelines will be shared as they are developed.
