---
title: May 20 (11 a.m.) update
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-20
link: >-
  https://www.princeton.edu/content/covid-19-coronavirus-information
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-princeton
---
As of Wednesday, May 20, Princeton’s University Health Services (UHS) reports they are aware of the cases detailed below. Please remember, if students, faculty, or staff are tested for coronavirus, in any jurisdiction, they must contact UHS at [ **communityhealth@princeton.edu**](mailto:communityhealth@princeton.edu). No one should wait for results; they should reach out to UHS directly as soon as they are tested.

The University will continue to provide regular updates on the number of tests and cases involving community members which UHS is aware of. These numbers, especially those involving students who no longer reside on campus, are based on self-reporting. 

 **Students**

138 students have been tested for COVID-19. Of those, 27 students tested were on campus and 111 were elsewhere.

 _On-campus students:_   

3 students tested positive. Of those: __

  * 1 met the criteria for discontinuation of isolation and is off campus.
  * 2 discontinued isolation according to clinical criteria and returned to regular on campus housing.



24 students tested negative and discontinued isolation per the clinical criteria.

No students are isolating or quarantining on campus as of May 19.

 _Off-campus students:_

45 students tested positive and are receiving appropriate treatment.

62 students tested negative.

4 test results are pending.

 **Employees**

99 employees have been tested for COVID-19. Of those:

39 have tested positive. Of which:

  * 29 have recovered and discontinued isolation.
  * 10 are in their respective homes in self-isolation and receiving appropriate treatment.



54 have tested negative.

5 tests are pending results.

1 has resulted inconclusive. The employee will not be retested, has recovered and returned to work.

This case update is as of May 20 at 9 a.m. The University will continue to report regularly to the community on these developments.

We ask every member of the Princeton University community, whether on campus or elsewhere, to continue doing all they can to help slow the spread of this pandemic, including careful hand-washing, social distancing, and staying home as much as possible. Please remember, if you are tested for coronavirus, no matter where you are tested, you should immediately notify UHS by emailing  **[communityhealth@princeton.edu](mailto:communityhealth@princeton.edu).**
