---
title: "Friday, May 15, 2020 4:46 p.m. - From the President"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-05-15
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Dear Miami Community,

This spring has shown how Miamians come together to live our values of Love and Honor, and to support one another. I am humbled to be President of this great university which has instilled such values in so many alumni, students, faculty and staff—thank you.

As we enter the summer session, we are planning to resume in-person instruction on all campuses in the fall. We continue to work with local public health officials and follow the guidance and directives of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Governor Mike DeWine, and the Ohio Department of Health to safeguard the health of students, faculty, staff and visitors to our campuses.

Miami has built strong relationships with local health officials, hospitals, government leaders, and first responders. We are collaborating with our Student Health Services experts, and we have further strengthened our relationship with our health-care partner, TriHealth, one of the top integrated health systems in Greater Cincinnati. TriHealth operates both McCullough-Hyde Memorial Hospital, as well as our full-service Student Health Center in Oxford. These relationships help us in addressing the spread of the virus and preparing our campuses for the safe return of students, faculty and staff in the fall. We also continue to work closely with the Ohio’s Inter-University Council (IUC), comprised of Ohio’s 14 public universities.

The health and safety of the Miami community is paramount, and while on campus in-person instruction is the plan for the fall, we will be prepared for various scenarios, as government direction and restrictions to protect the health and safety of our campuses must guide our decisions.

As we return to our campuses, we anticipate various safeguards and strategies: physical distancing, changes to dining facilities and how we serve food, frequent cleaning of facilities, and other actions to promote health and safety. To coordinate these planning efforts for a safe return in the fall, I have appointed a Safe Return to Campus Planning and Coordinating Committee. The Committee will be co-chaired by the Chair of the Senate Executive Committee, Dana Cox, and by Gwen Fears, Assistant Vice President for Student Life - Assessment, Planning, and Transition. They will be joined by an accomplished team of faculty, staff and students from across our campuses and will be advised by internal and external experts.

Thank you for your support and adaptability. We will continue to keep you updated as we plan for the fall.

Love and Honor,

Gregory P. Crawford  
President
