---
title: "Thursday, May 7, 2020 1:10 p.m. - From the President"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-05-07
link: >-
  https://miamioh.edu/coronavirus/campus-announcements/index.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-muohio
---
Dear Miami Community,

It is our plan and intention to return to campus in the fall. While our students are eager to start their Miami journey, or to return to visit old friends, interact with faculty, engage in research, and engage in all the experiences of our campuses, we must plan and put safety first. The planning will be coordinated by the Safe Return to Campus Planning and Coordinating Committee. The Committee will be co-chaired by the Chair of the Senate Executive Committee, Dana Cox, and by Gwen Fears, Assistant Vice President for Student Life - Assessment, Planning, and Transition. In addition, Ohio’s Inter-University Council (IUC), comprised of Ohio’s 14 public universities, has formed a committee for the safe return to Ohio’s campuses, Assistant Vice President for Health and Wellness, Steve Large, is representing Miami University.

While the stay at home order remains in effect, Ohio is reopening in stages this month. At Miami we will also begin to bring back employees to our campuses in stages. Until directed otherwise, all employees should continue their current arrangement, essential or remote, your supervisor will contact you when it is time to change the arrangement. The Crisis Management Team will be sending out additional guidance.

I invite all of you to view our virtual Commencement Experience on May 16 & 17\. Created by an incredible team of alumni, staff, faculty, and Miami students, we are transforming our traditional May celebrations into a dynamic, immersive event designed to honor our graduates, showcase the Miami Experience, and be enjoyed by family, friends, and alumni from anywhere across the world. Please visit our [Commencement website](https://miamioh.edu/commencement/index.html), and watch for this week’s Miami Matters to learn more.

I want to share how so many Miamians have generously supported our students during this time of crisis. Our Emergency Needs Funds for students has now surpassed $550,000 in contributions! Thank you so much to everyone who is working to support our students. Your efforts and gifts are greatly appreciated.

Love and Honor,

Gregory P. Crawford  
President
