---
title: Reactivating our Australian campuses
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-15
link: >-
  https://www.monash.edu/news/coronavirus-updates
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-monash
---
  * The Federal and State Governments are planning a staged approach for recovery post the COVID-19 health crisis. The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) has also updated its [Actions for TAFE, colleges and universities](https://www.dhhs.vic.gov.au/stay-home-restrictions-coronavirus#actions-for-tafe-colleges-and-universities). Monash will align with this approach in reactivating our Australian campuses.



 **From 18 May** :

  * Researchers, including postdoctoral fellows and higher degree research students who need to access specialist research laboratory spaces to continue their research will be able to progressively return to campus where current physical distancing restrictions are able to be met.


  * These students will be communicated with individually by their Faculty, including their options if they are unable to attend campus.


  * Caulfield library will reopen between the hours of 9:00am and 5:00pm. Physical distancing will be observed.



 **From 26 May** :

  * Final year students, including Honours students (and essential teaching staff required for the delivery of these activities) who need to complete practical laboratories, studios and related practical learning activities as part of their final year assessments will be able to progressively return to campus where current physical distancing restrictions are able to be met.


  * These students will be communicated with individually by their Faculty, including their options if they are unable to attend campus.



 **From 8 June** :

  * Some first year student groups can progressively attend on-campus orientation-type learning activities to introduce them to their Australian campuses and teaching staff.


  * These students will be communicated with individually by their Faculty as it relates to the parameters of their attendance, including their options if they are unable to attend campus.


  * Online learning for students, including those who are offshore or interstate, will continue without interruption until the end of the semester and assessments and examinations will continue as planned. Students’ learning will not be disadvantaged if they are unable to attend campus.


  * Working from home arrangements will continue for non-essential Monash staff until at least 31 May. This includes research staff that can continue their work from home. When Monash staff are able to return to working from campus, they will return to campus in a staggered approach in line with student needs and government advice including recognising the personal demands associated with schooling from home. Arrangements for a staggered return to campus will be advised in coming weeks.


  * We will ensure operations can be managed in line with physical distancing restrictions, and that appropriate cleaning, sanitation and guidelines are in place to ensure your health and safety.


  * Any staff or student who is at [greater risk of serious illness from COVID-19](https://www.health.gov.au/news/health-alerts/novel-coronavirus-2019-ncov-health-alert/advice-for-people-at-risk-of-coronavirus-covid-19) will be provided with flexibility that may continue to allow them to work or study from home if they wish.



 **Campus services and retailers**

  * Campus services and retailers will be gradually reopened in line with guidance from the Australian and Victorian Government.


  * Information about opening hours and provision of other University services and retailers can be found on the websites of those specific services, which are constantly being updated to reflect the changing guidelines.



 **Winter Semester and Semester two arrangements**

  * While we are committed to ensuring our campus operations can resume as soon as possible, the dynamic nature of the COVID-19 global health pandemic means that we are planning for staggered and blended arrangements for Winter Semester units, as well as the commencement of Semester Two, and will keep the Monash community informed as we continue to activate in-person education.


  * We will continue to progressively increase the number of students on campus in 2020, while simultaneously preparing to continue to provide online learning for student cohorts that cannot attend campus and for part of the education of students who are able to attend campus while meeting physical distancing restrictions.


  * We will continue to provide online learning for our students studying interstate or offshore until further notice is received from the Federal and Victorian government in line with stage three reactivation of the country.



 **Health and safety**

  * Monash University will continue to ensure we are protecting the health and safety of our staff, students and community by operating consistently with government requirements and health advice.


  * It’s important we continue to keep our University community safe, and we all play a role in slowing the spread of COVID-19.


  * For staff and students returning to campus, we have implemented a number of initiatives designed to keep them safe. This includes:


  * Implementing physical distancing guidelines and signage for all learning, research, work and community spaces on campus. Each space has been reviewed for adherence with physical distancing laws and activities have been adjusted accordingly.


  * Increasing cleaning on our Australian campuses, including regular disinfection of high-traffic community spaces (including bathrooms and kitchens), and cleaning learning and research spaces in between each activity.


  * Introducing hand sanitisers across our Australian campuses.


  * Any staff or students who are presenting with potential symptoms of COVID-19 – including mild symptoms like a scratchy throat or runny nose – should get tested and refrain from coming to the University until their test results are known.


  * If you are sick, stay home.


  * We encourage staff and students to download the Australian Government’s [COVIDSafe app](https://www.health.gov.au/resources/apps-and-tools/covidsafe-app), which helps speed up contacting people exposed to anyone who is a confirmed case of COVID-19.


