---
title: "Last updated 20 May 2020 4:06pm"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-05-20
link: >-
  https://www.monash.edu/news/coronavirus-updates
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-monash
---
**Last updated 20 May 2020 4:06pm**

 **Parking on campus:**

  * For the limited number of staff and students who still need to come to campus at this time, students can park free in any blue, and staff can park free in any red or blue permit areas until 30 June 2020.
  * We’ll continue to review these arrangements, and continue to keep you informed of any changes.



 **Reactivating our Australian campuses:**

  * All decisions about the phased reopening of our Australian campus activities will be made in line with guidelines from the Australian and Victorian Governments and health authorities, and endorsed by the University’s Chief Medical Officer.
  * The University has been reviewing carefully what a return to an on-campus work and study environment might look like for our Australian campuses, and we will soon begin a phased return beginning with:
  *  **From 18 May:  **Researchers, including postdoctoral fellows and higher degree research students who need to access specialist research laboratory spaces to continue their research will be able to progressively return to campus where current physical distancing restrictions are able to be met. Caulfield library will reopen between the hours of 9:00am and 5:00pm Monday-Friday. Physical distancing will be observed.
  *  **From 26 May:  **Final year students, including Honours students (and essential teaching staff required for the delivery of these activities) who need to complete practical laboratories, studios and related practical learning activities as part of their final year assessments will be able to progressively return to campus where current physical distancing restrictions are able to be met.
  *  **From 8 June:** Some first year student groups can progressively attend on-campus orientation-type learning activities to introduce them to their campuses and teaching staff.



Staff: For information on the range of OHS measures in place to protect your health and safety, and to control the spread of COVID-19, please visit the  _[COVID-19 Return to work](https://www.monash.edu/ohs/news-and-health-alerts/health-alert/covid19-return-to-work) _webpage.

 **SecondBite free meal package program:**

  * National food rescue organisation SecondBite is offering Monash international students frozen meal packages as part of their free food program, commencing Tuesday, 19 May.
  * MSA and MONSU Caulfield will distribute the free frozen meal packages at our Clayton and Caulfield campuses each Tuesday. Social distancing measures will be in place.
  * Please note there is a limit of 1x 1kg frozen meal package per student for the entirety of the program.
  * If you would like to receive a free frozen meal package, select your preferred date and time for pick up at either the [Clayton](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/international-student-free-meal-package-program-from-secondbite-clayton-tickets-104923603322) or [Caulfield](https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/international-student-free-meal-package-program-from-secondbite-caulfield-tickets-105187444478) campus. Further details on the exact pick up location can be found in the above links.



 **Exams and assessment:**

  * We recently established an Academic Safety Net working group – made up of students and staff members of the Academic Board – to make recommendations to the Academic Board about grading matters for semester one 2020, and other [teaching periods](https://click.a.e.monash.edu/?qs=f9864cc44ed499b293d8e8033cc3774d4638867784f64be1099da296ec4a5e6d42820397e1a3eb346c3724aa334dcffcafe9c44796532766) that intersect with or align with semester one.
  * Their recommendations were voted on and approved by the Academic Board: 
    * If students achieve a mark of 40-49, they can choose to complete supplementary assessment in all the units that meet these criteria. The previous cap of two units for supplementary assessments is relaxed.
    * Any existing threshold hurdles will be applied at 40, not the current mark of 45, including exams.
    * After results are released, students can choose to exclude the results of all passed units studied in semester one from the calculation of their Grade Point Average and Weighted Average Mark. This is based on the principle that the disadvantage experienced by the student is experienced in all units, not just select units. Students who opt to exclude their results will have each unit which they passed recorded as SFR (Satisfied Faculty Requirements) on the transcript.
  * COVID-19 arrangements for students enrolled in MSA teach-out courses, offered in cooperation with Monash University, will be communicated directly by [IIE MSA](https://www.iiemsa.co.za/students/covid-19-information/), the campus owner and operator.


