---
title: Systemwide update from President Joan Gabel on the virtual Town Hall meeting, Sunrise Plan update and Fall 2020 scenario planning
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-20
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ua5BcE4JBkUt1lUaPTBUyH_Bzta7IO7J/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff,

Earlier today, members of our senior leadership team and I held a virtual Town Hall to answer your questions, to share the latest updates on our Sunrise Plan, to start the conversations around our planning for Fall 2020 and the financial impacts from the pandemic (including payroll), to offer an update on last weekend’s virtual commencement ceremony, as well as several other items. I wanted to share the information with all of you in case you were unable to join us.

Commencement 2020
I am impressed and grateful to the Class of 2020 for how they have navigated through disruption in recent months to successfully earn their degrees, all while doing their part in this historic moment to help protect the health, safety, and well-being of others.

I was honored to celebrate our graduates on Saturday during a virtual commencement, and to gather with you as a University family to mark their important milestone. We share their anticipation for the day when we can all be together again.

My thanks to our commencement coordinators, campus and college communications staff, the Disability Resource Center, bookstore staff, Chancellors, Deans, University Relations, Gopher Digital Productions, and all of those who created such a unique and memorable experience for our graduates.

You can view all of the commencement videos, speakers, and other resources online. We have also created a highlight video that captures this unique experience. Hail to Thee!

Fall 2020 Scenario Planning
The Fall 2020 Scenarios Advisory Team continues to work on recommended plans for a variety of contingencies this fall. While a decision about Fall semester is coming soon, I want to reiterate several key points that continue to guide initial recommendations.

First, the safety and health of our students, faculty, and staff will always be our top priority. While we can’t predict the evolution of the pandemic, we are working toward the intersection among safety, flexibility, and meaningful and high-quality experiences. Second, we are actively exploring avenues that will accelerate the completion of the Fall semester no matter our approach. Public health experts are concerned about a potential resurgence of COVID-19 later this fall. An accelerated semester—particularly if we are able to gather on campuses—would limit extended travel (which can be an aggravating factor to the spread of COVID-19) and increase our ability to pivot our approach if needed at some point due to the pandemic. An accelerated schedule will also allow for a longer winter break to continue to improve our services and potentially see progress toward mitigating treatments and/or vaccines.

Finally, whatever we ultimately agree is best for our community for the Fall semester will be different than what we would have previously described as “normal.” Our facilities will likely have a different flow and many, if not most, of our colleagues will still be working from home. This “new normal” has its stresses and challenges, but it is also an opportunity to innovate and lean into our collective creativity. Our success over recent months gives me every confidence that we will create a fall semester that sets a foundation for a different and successful future.

Update on our Sunrise Plan
Work on our Sunrise Plan continues as we carefully reopen certain functions across our system, including returning staff and faculty to research labs and administrative or teaching functions that cannot be done effectively from home. The plan emphasizes the health and safety of employees and requires unit leaders to implement the physical distancing requirements outlined by the Minnesota Department of Health and our own medical and public health experts.

An important part of this plan is the commitment that we make to one another to keep our community well. The Safer Each Step commitment describes what we must do individually to protect ourselves, our colleagues, and our communities. Facilities management staff across the system will print and post the Safe Each Step poster in prominent places in our buildings. I encourage you to print it yourself when you return to campus or your worksite and to post it somewhere visible to you as a reminder.

Mental Health Podcast
Since 1949, May has been Mental Health Month. The past few months have illustrated the importance of self-care and prioritizing our own mental well-being and the mental health of those around us. We have resources across the system, including a new Top of Mind podcast. As we touched on in today’s Town Hall, student resources, as well as resources for faculty and staff, can be easily accessed—even from home. I hope you’ll fully utilize any services you may need.
Thank you for all you’re doing and please stay healthy, safe, and well. We are #UMNProud.

With warmest wishes,
Joan Gabel