---
title: Doctoral College newsletter 6, sent 19 May 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-19
link: >-
  https://coronavirus.leeds.ac.uk/student-advice/student-communications/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-leeds
---
During this time of upheaval, we have decided to send the newsletter out on a more regular basis. 

The Leeds Doctoral College Newsletter is emailed to all postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and members of the Doctoral College, and is published as an announcement on the Leeds Doctoral College Organisation on Minerva and the coronavirus website. Past editions can be requested via email. 

UPDATES

For the latest general advice, please check the news on our dedicated coronavirus website and PGR FAQs. There is also an archive of the coronavirus updates sent to students.

Extensions, funding and covid-19

With sincere apologies for any confusion, the following replaces incorrect information that was released in the newsletter sent out on Wednesday 13 May:

Professor Claire Honess and Professor Lisa Roberts emailed all PGRs on Thursday 7 May, detailing the University’s policies on extensions, overtime periods and funding for those impacted by the covid-19 situation. Emails have already been sent out to all final-year Research Council-funded PGRs, and School/Faculty/University-funded PGRs in their final year will be receiving further instructions in the next few days. Please be patient while we set up this process: we want it to be as seamless and painless as possible for applicants. If you are a final-year Research Council-funded PGR and you have not yet heard from us, please contact your Faculty Graduate School as soon as possible. If you are a final-year PGR funded by the University of Leeds, please contact your Graduate School if you have not heard from us by the end of May.

Virtual Windows Desktop
The Virtual Windows Desktop is now available. It provides access to a Windows 10 desktop and a number of software applications from your personal computer.

Keep in touch 
It is still vitally important that you make regular contact with your supervisor/s and continue to maintain your GRAD record. If your work is affected by the current circumstances in any way (e.g. lack of access to facilities, inability to carry out fieldwork, caring duties etc.) please record the details in a ‘supervision meeting’ record on GRAD, so that your supervisors are aware and so that we can take this into account should we need to in future. If your circumstances change in any way, or you have any concerns, please contact your Graduate School – all teams are working from home but are still available on emails.

Please get in touch with the Doctoral College if there is anything more that you need to know. Your safety and wellbeing are our priority.

DOCTORAL COLLEGE GOOD NEWS

We want to celebrate your successes, big or small. Please send any good news to the Doctoral College.

Glenn Brown Prize 2020, International Liquid Crystal Society
Dr Devesh Mistry, PGR alumni from the School of Physics and Astronomy, has been awarded the 2020 Glenn Brown Prize for his thesis. Only four theses are selected for this award, which is given every two years by the International Liquid Crystal Society. The subject matter covers all areas of liquid crystal science and engineering, and the awards are global. Devesh won University of Leeds PGR Student of the Year during his time here and currently holds a Lindemann Fellowship at Denver. He has just finished publishing all the work from his thesis; five papers in excellent journals and one patent. 

Covid-19 Expert Database
LUBS PGR Sam Appleton has contributed to UK Parliament's work on the impact that covid-19 will have on business.

UPCOMING EVENTS AND OPPORTUNITIES

Energy Leeds webinar series
Energy Leeds is pleased to launch an interdisciplinary webinar series exploring how to deliver a clean, affordable and fair energy system. The series aims to bring together researchers from across the University to maintain and develop new connections and inspire ideas and collaborations that help to address key energy challenges facing society. 
Tuesday 19 May Deployment of heat pump technology in the UK: barriers and opportunities
Tuesday 2 June The long and difficult take up of electrical infrastructure: a historical perspective 
Tuesday 16 June Gasification of Bio-Wastes for Sustainable Heat and Power 
Tuesday 30 June The lived experience of energy consumption: informing policy through daily life 
Tuesday 14 July Delivering energy change through non-energy actors – the example of construction 
Tuesday 28 July Decarbonising heat: the challenges of cross sector approaches 
Tuesday 11 August Infrastructure as source/store of thermal energy for decarbonising heating / cooling 
Tuesday 8 September Alternative fuels and powertrains for road and off-road vehicles 
Tuesday 22 September The decoupling illusion 

Leeds Doctoral College Showcase: Online Poster Conference, July 2020 
There is only one day left to express your interest in taking part in the Leeds Doctoral College Showcase: Online Poster Conference 2020. 
The Conference will showcase the best of PGR research at the University of Leeds. 25 posters will be chosen to be exhibited online in July 2020, and there are three cash prizes plus a people’s vote for the most popular poster.
Interested? Complete this short form to tell us your details; the deadline is 12 noon on Wednesday 20 May. When your Expression of Interest form is received, we’ll send you training resources to help with writing abstracts and producing posters. Please email PGR Development if you have any questions. 

WELLBEING AND COMMUNITY                            

Mental Health Awareness Week
Richa Yeshvekar, Wellbeing Rep in the Faculty of Biological Sciences, has put together these resources:
PhD Balance Grad Chat is an interactive Zoom session hosted by Susanna Harris and Fay Lin to discuss mental health and balance during PhD. The sessions are held every Saturday at 8pm.
#100Voices is an amazing thread of Tweets by 100 people during the past 100 days; a beautiful conversation to explore what other researchers feel.
Grad Write Slack is an accountability Slack group of PhD and postdocs across the world. They run regular virtual Pomodoro writing sessions.

Leeds University Union is running online events every day, too, based around the NHS ‘5 Ways to Wellbeing’, and the Counselling Service has lots of resources online, as well as support via Zoom.

Homeschooling resources
Dr Judy Sayers and colleagues from the School of Education have compiled a list of recommended resources to help parents and teachers manage learning at home while schools are closed. There are academic resources for all ages, as well as games and crafts.

LUU Wellbeing update         
The Student Union team is working hard to continue to provide support to all students. You can see updates and access their resources on the dedicated LUU Covid-19 Community group on Facebook. Your Student Reps are also here to help with any concerns. LUU Help & Support is continuing to offer advice on issues including academic concerns, housing, financial or mental health support; please get in touch or call 0113 3801 400. They can also help you access the emergency hardship fund, available to anyone struggling financially under the current circumstances. 

RESEARCH SKILLS AND CAREERS

The Scholars Programme 2020-21
The Brilliant Club’s Researcher Development Programme offers PhD and Early Career Researchers a meaningful, paid, professional development opportunity. Its mission is to support pupils from underrepresented backgrounds to have fair access to university. It does this by training PhD researchers as tutors to deliver The Scholars Programme in non-selective state schools. Applications to work as a Scholars Programme tutor are open until the end of May.

Don’t forget to follow us on Twitter and Facebook, and watch out for announcements on Minerva to keep up with future developments and events! 

Best wishes,

Professor Claire Honess
Dean of the Doctoral College

Email:  doctoralcollege@leeds.ac.uk 
Web:    http://www.leeds.ac.uk/doctoralcollege
Social: @LeedsDocCollege  
12.22, Ziff Building, University of Leeds, 
Woodhouse Lane, Leeds, LS2 9JT