---
title: Message from the Office of the President Sunrise and Other Updates
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-14
link: >-
  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-nFANHd-zbB4twIx5t4ycncm9fe4ABdD/view
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-umn
---
Dear students, faculty, and staff, 

In a statewide address last night, Governor Tim Walz shared his plans for lifting some of the restrictions in place related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Consistent with his guidance, we are advancing our Sunrise Plan to carefully and thoughtfully outline how some of our faculty and staff can return to University worksites. 

Importantly, the Governor’s latest orders reiterate that those who can work from home must continue to do so. Therefore, our employees who are able to perform their job duties remotely will continue doing so until further notice. The Governor’s orders also extended prohibitions on large gatherings, so we will continue to restrict such gatherings and our museums and event spaces will remain closed until the Governor revises his guidance. 

The Next Phase of Our Sunrise Plan In our May 1 systemwide message, we announced details of the first phase of our Sunrise Plan. The initial phase of the Plan is well underway. Many requests to return to University facilities have already been approved, particularly for researchers, and many of our faculty and staff are resuming their work on campus. 

With the Governor’s latest announcement, we can now begin to slowly reopen other functions across the system. I want to stress that this reopening will be thoughtful, careful, and cognizant of the impacts on the health and welfare of our students, faculty, and staff, as well as those in Minnesota communities with whom we interact. 

We are developing a process that will work similarly to the first phase of our Sunrise Plan for those employees who cannot do their work anywhere but on campus. This second phase continues to require most employees to work from home, but will also coordinate some employees returning to campus with notice to our facilities management teams to ensure that we are appropriately sanitizing workspaces. 

All of this won’t happen overnight. In addition, we know that many of you have reasons why you cannot return to campus just yet, including health concerns and/or childcare or family obligations that will require time to adjust. We will work to ensure that you are kept informed every step of the way as we slowly move toward more of us being back on campus. 

Fall 2020 Scenario Planning While we work on the immediate changes that the Governor’s announcement permits, we are also hard at work planning for the fall. The Fall 2020 Scenarios Advisory Team first met on April 27 to sketch out possibilities for the delivery of the academic mission in Fall 2020 in the context of COVID-19. The team includes public health experts, academic leaders, and operational representatives from across the system. The team is focusing on five key spheres of the University’s academic life: classrooms/study spaces/libraries; labs/studios; housing/dining; rec centers/student unions/events/student groups; outreach/engagement. 

While no decisions have been made about Fall 2020, the team has agreed to explore four alternative scenarios across these spheres (relaxed social distancing; moderately restrictive; significantly restrictive; stay-at-home-order). Subgroups are 

- UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 

·•· Driven to Discover ® 

Crooksto n Duluth Morris Rochester Twin Cities developing recommendations for each scenario within their domain. Members of the team are also consulting with experts with the State of Minnesota on task forces for higher education. 

The planning explicitly recognizes the need for flexibility. At the individual level, students, faculty, and staff need options based on their underlying vulnerabilities or those of their families. At the system level, we need flexibility among our diverse campuses, recognizing the need for variations in implementation. A few recommendations are common across scenarios and domains, including: 

• Daily self-monitoring of temperature and other health indicators. 

• Testing when clinically indicated, contact tracing, isolation for those with the disease, and quarantine for those exposed. 

• Cloth masks provided to all students and employees who are on campus and required in specific settings. 

• Adjusted classroom capacity levels, dining options, housing density, and gathering sizes based on social distancing requirements. 

• Scheduling of in-person classes extended, potentially to begin earlier and end later, and to include Saturday classes, to enable an enhanced cleaning routine and reduce density in hallways and buildings. 

• Consideration of adjustment of academic calendars, when appropriate, to reduce the travel of students between campus and their family homes. 

• Review and reminder of policies related to students missing classes for bereavement or illness, students requesting incompletes or withdrawals, and students needing a leave of absence. 

These recommendations are just a starting point. There is certainly more work to do as a system and on each campus, in each program, and in each class. I see firsthand and I respect that there is real fatigue stemming from the tremendous work you have already done and continue to do. But I’ll quote Maya Angelou once again who said, “You can’t use creativity. The more you use, the more you have.” So with appreciation, I’ll ask all of you to think about the fall, to lean into your creativity and to our resources, and share with us your thoughts and ideas as we move forward. You can reach out to Provost Rachel Croson or to me, or feel free to send any comments, thoughts, or suggestions you might have to this form (login required). 

May 20 Town Hall 1 p.m. CDT Next week we will hold a virtual Town Hall to discuss the next phase of our Sunrise Plan, our planning for the fall semester, the recommended Fiscal Year 2021 budget as presented to Regents last week, and address other questions that you may have. Like our last Town Hall, the intention is to answer collectively the biggest questions and concerns across the system. Please click here to submit your questions (login required) and we will work together toward providing you with answers. You can watch it live on YouTube (link will go live at 1 p.m. on May 20). 

Congratulations, Class of 2020 Before we fully turn our attention to summer and fall, our entire University family looks forward to joining our 2020 graduates on Saturday at 11 a.m. to recognize their hard work and accomplishments in a virtual commencement celebration. The year’s theme is “Hail to Thee,” the University’s alma mater and a reference from Minnesota’s state song that reflects our students’ incredible resilience during these challenging times. 

On behalf of the University of Minnesota, we wish all of our graduates the very best of luck as they move ahead in their journeys, and we look forward to seeing and hearing about all of the incredible things that they will achieve. 

Lastly, I continue to reflect on the countless acts of kindness, empathy, and understanding being demonstrated across our University family every day—from your uplifting words of support for friends and co-workers, to those on the frontlines keeping us healthy, safe, and well. This collective spirit lifts us all, and makes us #UMNProud. 

With warmest 

wishes, Joan Gabel 