---
title: Undergraduates-Non-final year Part II students
subtitle: What will happen with summer exams 2020?
date: 2020-05-08
link: >-
  https://portal.lancaster.ac.uk/intranet/cms/coronavirus/exams-teaching-and-assessment
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-lancaster
---
For non-final year Part II undergraduates,  **we will endeavour to progress as many students as possible to your next year of study without the need for exams this summer**.

We can only do this if we have sufficient evidence from your assessment so far that you qualify for progression and if there are no external constraints such as accreditation issues from professional bodies. Where we have to, we will be setting some coursework or short tests as appropriate to your course. These will be designed to cover the same material as the assessment that you were expecting. **Your progression status will be based on the marks that you have accumulated to date (including any outstanding coursework) and any additional assessment that is required.** In calculating the progression status we may make adjustments to reflect relative performances between exams and coursework. We are aiming to give you the best possible opportunity to be successful.

Where you have a failed module/modules you will be required to attempt the assessment for these modules in August using an online exam. Performance in these assessments will be treated as the assessments in Summer Term (Term 3) 2020. If you fail your first attempt in August you will be advised about options. We are aiming to give you the best possible opportunity to be successful.
