---
title: General information for non-final year Undergraduate students
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-15
link: >-
  https://intranet.birmingham.ac.uk/student/coronavirus/your-studies.aspx
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-birmingham.ac
---
#### Will I have any exams this summer?

No. We will be cancelling all exams scheduled in the summer period.

You do need to complete any outstanding coursework assessments for individual modules. You will need to refer to information from your School or department with regards to deadlines for these assessments, and any extensions or alternative arrangements.

In order to progress to the next year of study, we will be asking you to complete a piece of bridging coursework.

This will be a single, overarching piece of coursework that will act as a bridge from this year of study to the next, so that you are ready to progress.

#### Do I still need to complete my current coursework?

Yes. You need to complete any outstanding coursework assessments for individual modules. You will need to refer to information from your School or department with regards to deadlines for these assessments, and any extensions or alternative arrangements.

#### What is the ‘bridging coursework’?

The bridging coursework is a single, overarching piece of coursework that you will be asked to engage with so that you are ready to progress to the next year of study.

You will need to engage with it before the next academic year, and engagement with it will count as a ‘pass’. This is designed to put you in the best possible position to succeed in your future studies.

Our aim is to make this exercise as interesting and engaging for you as possible. We will be very flexible about when you do it, any time before the next academic year.

We will provide detailed information on the bridging coursework after Easter. We understand there will be many questions and that students are facing a wide range of different circumstances. Please avoid emailing individual requests at this time to enable staff to provide information for all students more quickly.

#### Will modules in 2020-21 take into account the changes to this academic year?

Staff will be working hard across the summer to modify Semester 1 modules to take into account the lost assessments this year.

#### I am on a four year MEng/MSci programme, do I count as a returning undergraduate student?

Yes. These arrangements also cover students on four year MSci/MEng programmes.
