---
title: Postgraduate research student email - 14 May 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-14
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/resources/coronavirus/Covid-19update_Postgraduateresearch14.05.2020.pdf
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
To: All postgraduate research students
From: coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk
Subject: Covid-19 update: Postgraduate research
To be issued: Thursday 14 May

Dear Postgraduate Researcher,

The Covid-19 crisis has affected the lives of every member of the University community. Many post-graduate researchers have had their research plans disrupted by restrictions on their ability to access research materials or laboratories, to travel for fieldwork or to work with human subjects, or by their personal circumstances in home isolation or as carers. Durham University is committed to doing whatever it reasonably can to enable you to overcome the impact of the Covid-19 crisis and to complete your degrees, and to provide you with support through our PGR mutual support group( https://www.dur.ac.uk/counselling.service/workshops.groups/ ) and via your college Student Support Office.

This letter explains the University’s response to the impact of the crisis on post-graduate research and what we are doing to assist the PGR community. The support described below applies to students studying for research masters and doctoral degrees and to both full-time and part-time students.

Research masters and doctoral degrees

The University encourages students to complete their research degrees within their normal period of supervised study whenever possible and will support them to do so. In the first instance, students and supervisors should discuss changing the phasing of work to bring forward some activities and to delay others, enabling research activity to continue while access to research resources is restricted. Where this is impractical, revising the objectives of the research project or altering its methodology may enable research to be completed within the period of supervised study. We recognise that some impacts – for example, missing seasonal fieldwork – cannot easily be mitigated and that for students near the end of their projects there is simply not enough time to mitigate all impacts of Covid-19. Where impacts are minor and do not compromise the ability of a student to submit a thesis that meets the criteria for their degree, a statement may be submitted with the Higher Degree Entry form explaining the nature of the impacts. Examiners will take impacts due to Covid-19 into account during the examination of the thesis. Where the impacts are significant, a concession may be awarded for an extension to the period of supervised study. If the funding body will not pay tuition fees for the period of the extension, the University will waive tuition fees. This waiver also applies to self-funded students.

Funding and stipend information

Some funders, including UKRI and the Wellcome Trust, have announced that they will provide stipends for PhD students in their final year who need to extend their studies. Students eligible to apply for costed extensions from these bodies have already been contacted to provide details of how Covid-19 has affected their research. The University will provide extensions to stipends for other students funded through Durham University. All extensions will be based on an assessment of the impact of Covid-19 on the research project, regardless of the funding source. At the present time, this commitment applies to students whose studentship ends by 31 March 2021 and is for a maximum of six months. Where possible, the University will take a decision on extensions at least three months before the end of the studentship. Further details of the application process will be provided shortly. The University will keep the impacts of Covid-19 under review for students in earlier years of their degrees; the University is committed to providing the necessary support for them to complete their research projects.

Students not in receipt of stipends from Durham University who experience hardship as a result of the Covid-19 crisis can apply for support from the Student Support Fund. The same criteria for the academic impact of Covid-19 will be applied to all students. More information on the Student Support Fund is available on our website( https://www.dur.ac.uk/student.finance/current/support/ssf/ ).

The Covid-19 crisis is having a particular impact on students whose period of funding ended during the lockdown. We are immediately extending the stipends of students who are eligible for an extension until 31 May or until the date that they submit their thesis, if earlier. This emergency support will form part of any extension subsequently granted. Students in receipt of emergency support are eligible to apply for further extensions if required.

Research recovery

We appreciate that for many students the greatest help is to be able to get back to work. The Research Recovery Group is hard at work planning how to restart research safely in Durham University buildings. Further details of the plans to provide access to buildings and research facilities will be communicated as they are developed.

Conclusion

We hope that the information in this email brings some reassurance that the University is supporting you to complete your degree successfully in these difficult times. If you have any further questions about the support you can access please refer to the FAQs on the University’s dedicated coronavirus website (https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/) which will be updated as further details become available. You can also talk to your supervisor or the Director of Postgraduate Studies in your Department for further advice.

With best wishes,

Professor Colin Bain
Vice-Provost (Research)

Professor Alan Houston
Vice-Provost (Education)