---
title: Undergraduate award rules for students scheduled to complete in 2019/2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-05-08
link: >-
  http://www.arcs.qmul.ac.uk/students/study/assessment-changes-due-to-coronavirus/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-qmul
---
  


Your final mark for classification will be derived using all your marks from your previous years of study, as well as the **best 90 credits from your final year of study** (which is year three for bachelor’s degrees, and year four for undergraduate master's programmes).

**In some cases, students** **will already have passed 90 credits** (eg, if a student has sat and passed modules adding up to 60 credits from Semester A and has a pass grade for a 30 credit research project module). In that case, your school or institute will advise you of your provisional grades and recommended award based on the 90 credits already passed. You would not then be obliged to complete the alternative assessments for the remaining 30 credits in Semester B modules. However, we **strongly recommend** that you take any remaining assessments available to you to give you the best chance that your 90 credits used to calculate your year average and overall degree mark are scored as highly as possible.

To be eligible for a foundation certificate or a graduate diploma, you must have completed modules to the value of 120 credits and passed at least 90 credits (including a minimum of 30 credits at the academic level appropriate to the award).

To be eligible for a bachelors degree, you need to have studied 360 credits, and to have passed a minimum of 270 credits in total with at least 30 credits passed at level 6. (These requirements may be higher for your award to be accredited by the relevant external, professional body). For an intercalated bachelors award, you must have completed 120 credits and passed a minimum 90 credits including at least 30 credits at level 6.

**Remember:** while it's mathematically possible for a student who passed 240 credits across years one and two to pass just 30 credits in their final year in order to receive a bachelors award, the low marks for the other, uncompleted, final year modules would have a severe negative impact on classification. This is why we encourage you to complete alternative assessments where you can, to give yourself the greatest number of opportunities for success.

To be eligible for an undergraduate masters degree, you need to have studied at least 480 credits, and to have passed a minimum 360 credits in total with at least 30 credits passed at level 7*.

The requirement to achieve a minimum overall weighted pass mark (‘College Mark’) to be eligible for award has not changed.

(*Requirements for professional accreditation of an award may be higher).
