---
title: Weighted Average Mark (WAM)
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://students.unimelb.edu.au/student-support/coronavirus/information-for-all-students
countryCode: au
status: published
instituteSlug: au-unimelb
---
## Weighted Average Mark (WAM)

### Update to WAM assessment for First Half Year 2020

The University of Melbourne Academic Board has revised assessment of the Weighted Average Mark (WAM) for First Half Year 2020.

 **The Academic Board has resolved that results from First Half Year 2020 subjects will not be included in the calculation of a student’s Weighted Average Mark (WAM) unless the mark achieved for the subject is equal to or higher than the WAM the student had achieved at the beginning of the semester.**

For the purposes of this Resolution, First Half Year means all subjects included in the first half year of 2020  ** _except  _**those subjects classified as Summer Semester subjects.

#### The revised WAM calculation will apply as follows, noting the following arrangements and exceptions:

  1. The WAM for programs that comprise 50 points or less in total will be calculated using normal practice, as a benchmark WAM based on prior study in that program for a student cannot be established.
  2. No First Half Year 2020 subject will be included in the WAM calculation (noting the Summer Semester exception) for a student who has yet to complete 50 points of study in their enrolled program prior to 2020, as a benchmark WAM for the student in that program cannot be established (this applies to students not covered by exception (1) above).
  3. For the Bachelors (Honours) program, subjects that receive a weighted mark below a student’s entry WAM for that program will be excluded from the WAM calculation. For the avoidance of doubt, a student’s entry WAM, in this context, is the WAM presented by the student to meet the selection resolution for that program, not the minimum WAM required for selection into the program. This applies to students who have commenced their Bachelor Honours year in the first half of 2020.
  4. All subject scores will be recorded on the transcript. 
    1. Where the result does not contribute to the WAM, it will be recorded against a new code. This code makes it clear that the subject is excluded from the WAM because of COVID-19.
  5. At the conclusion of their studies, students can request that all results recorded against the COVID-19 code be included in the WAM calculation. Any such subjects will then be coded as per usual practice.
  6. The revised WAM calculation does not apply to any subjects in Higher Degrees by Research.



The University believes this decision is in the best interests of all our students. We will continue to engage with our students as we navigate these challenging times together.

At the same time, our focus remains firmly on continuing to deliver the highest quality education experience and upholding the integrity of our academic programs. We thank all students for their commitment to this.
