---
title: Celebrating the Class of 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://www.rochester.edu/class-of-2020/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-rochester
---
I recently shared the University’s plans for conferring degrees to graduating students of the Class of 2020 in messages to students and parents.

Since first announcing we would not be able to gather for our traditional Commencement and diploma ceremonies, I have heard from many disappointed students and parents from across the University. Understandably, the majority of graduates still want to celebrate their academic accomplishments in the way they’ve always imagined, with an in-person ceremony.

Our Rochester graduates deserve a Commencement ceremony surrounded by friends, classmates, and family, with the involvement of faculty, complete with the regalia, speeches, and other traditions we’ve all come to expect. I assure you we will hold an authentic University of Rochester commencement as soon as it is feasible to do so. While none of us can say right now when that might be, we are looking at several possible scenarios and hope that when the time comes, you will be able to join us.

In the meantime, we will award degrees to all graduating students as scheduled and diplomas will be issued through the mail. The online degree conferral for all undergraduate and graduate students, including doctoral candidates, will take place on this website, rochester.edu/class-of-2020, on May 15 after 12 p.m. ET.

I know the Class of 2020 is well-prepared for the next chapter of their lives and I am confident they will go out in the world and continue to make life ever better.

Each school is also making plans to celebrate their graduating students online. More specific details will be provided soon.

While we recognize no online activity or website could possibly replicate the majesty of Commencement, we will try to maintain some traditions, such as brief remarks from academic leaders and a listing of graduate names and honorees. I suspect many of our graduates will find their own innovative ways to mark this moment.

As I said to our medical school students who graduated early a few weeks ago—also online—while this is not the graduation you expected, you have worked very hard to prepare for this moment. You are more than ready for the next chapter of your life. In the face of so many challenges, you continue to make us all so proud, and I know you will make the world ever better.

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf

President and G. Robert Witmer, Jr. University Professor