---
title: Commencement 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-08
link: >-
  https://sites.usc.edu/coronavirus/commencement-2020/
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-usc
---
Given the current challenges we’re all facing with the COVID-19 pandemic, we have decided to postpone all USC in-person commencement 2020 activities. We’re still ironing out the details, but we plan to hold a virtual conferring of student degrees in May. We also will have an in-person, on-campus celebration that will take place when travel and large group events once again become safe.

Firm plans for the on-campus event will not be possible until more is known about the advance of the pandemic, but we are certain that our original planned date of May 15, 2020 is no longer feasible. We announced this decision in a [letter to the USC community on March 20](https://coronavirus.usc.edu/2020/03/20/latest-updates-and-actions/), so you could cancel your travel plans. We will continue to communicate with you in the coming weeks, and we will keep you posted on our decisions.

We look forward to honoring our students, their achievements, and contributions and to celebrating with everyone’s friends and families. Commencement at USC is always very special, bringing 65,000 to 80,000 people of all ages from around the world—Trojans together—to celebrate in joyful ceremonies and events across the university. We are determined to find a way to celebrate together in this same spirit—but to do so safely.

Firm plans for the on-campus event will not be possible until more is known about the advance of the pandemic, but we are certain that our original planned date of May 15, 2020 is no longer feasible. We announced this decision in a [letter to the USC community on March 20](https://coronavirus.usc.edu/2020/03/20/latest-updates-and-actions/), so you could cancel your travel plans. We will continue to communicate with you in the coming weeks, and we will keep you posted on our decisions.

Below are answers to the frequently asked questions we have received. For more information on commencement, please visit [commencement.usc.edu.](https://commencement.usc.edu/) If you have any additional questions, please send an email to [acevents@usc.edu](mailto:acevents@usc.edu).
