---
title: In Response to Recent USG Guidance
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-17
link: >-
  http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#utm_source=gatech_home&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=coronavirus_campus
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-gatech
---
    

To the Georgia Tech campus community:

I thank you for your continued patience and understanding in this rapidly evolving public health emergency. Based upon new guidance we have received from the University System of Georgia, which is included at the end of this message, we can now affirm that we are moving all instruction to a distance format for the remainder of the semester.

Faculty are working hard to adapt the curriculum to a distance format using various technological solutions at their disposal. They may use the week of March 23 to test and practice those solutions as needed. Classes will re-start formally on March 30, but students are asked to make themselves available the week of March 23 should their faculty need them to test the new systems.

Graded assignments, tests, or quizzes planned for the week of March 23 will be postponed until after March 30 in order to give everyone adequate time to adjust to the new learning environment. Please be on the lookout for communication from your faculty about your courses.

The FAQs at [health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#faqs](http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#faqs) are being regularly updated and should be your primary resource for current information. Please direct any additional questions you may have to [provostsoffice@gatech.edu](mailto:provostsoffice@gatech.edu). International students with specific questions related to their status can contact [info@oie.gatech.edu](mailto:info@oie.gatech.edu).

Students are asked to stay away from campus for the rest of the semester. If you haven’t moved out, we will be providing separate instructions as to how to do it safely. **Please note that you are not allowed to return to campus and check out without specific permission from us.** This is necessary to ensure minimal contact with others while you move out of your residence halls.

Details regarding refunds for housing and dining are being reviewed and finalized by the USG. We will communicate with you as soon as we know more.

If you are unable to leave campus, please fill out and submit a [Housing Accommodation Request](https://c.gatech.edu/2U58Jmw) form. There will be follow-up communication specifically for students in that circumstance.

We will make every effort to accommodate students who are unable to return home or who cannot find housing elsewhere but we need everyone’s cooperation to limit the population on our campus as much as possible to reduce risk of infection for everyone. 

I know there has been some frustration as a result of my premature communications of these changes last week. I understand it, and I acknowledge and apologize for the confusion they caused.

These are difficult times for everyone. Yet, every day I am encouraged by the dedication, the sense of responsibility and mutual support among members of our community. I thank all students for what they are doing to adjust to this situation, as well as their families and friends who are helping them to ease the transition.

I thank all faculty members for creatively finding ways to shift their instruction to an entirely new format in a very short period of time and caring for the academic growth and progression of our students.

I thank our research faculty, graduate students, and postdocs for finding ways to adapt our research enterprise to this new reality.

I thank all staff for finding ways to get the job done without putting themselves or others at risk. And, I thank the Institute´s administration for their commitment to steering us through these uncharted waters.

Please take care of yourselves while you are away from campus and be mindful of the various safety measures you should take to avoid and prevent illness. We will keep in touch with you via email, social channels, and on the resource page [here](http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#utm_source=gatech_home&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=coronavirus_campus) as the situation changes and additional decisions are made.

-Ángel Cabrera  
President

* * *

**USG Moves to Online Instruction for Remainder of Semester**

The University System of Georgia (USG) has decided that all 26 institutions will move to online instruction for all courses for the remainder of the semester with extremely limited exceptions.

This action comes following last week’s decision to suspend instruction for two weeks to ensure business and instructional continuity, and to allow further state assessment of COVID-19.

Students are not allowed to return to campus until they receive permission from their institution, which will be forthcoming soon.

Additionally, residence halls will be closed, with minimal exceptions for students unable to return home, or who cannot find housing elsewhere. Students will receive specific instructions from campus leaders regarding when they will be allowed to return to campus to retrieve their belongings from residence halls. Students must follow those instructions. For those students who are unable to depart campus, we will make every effort to accommodate these students.

The USG will be providing guidance to campuses on refunds for housing, dining, and other services. Students should wait for their campus to contact them.

Institutions will remain open, with minimal staff physically on-site, to ensure continuity of certain services.

In the end, we want to ensure that our faculty, staff and students are safe; that we do our part to help stem the spread of the coronavirus in Georgia; and that we fulfill our mission to graduate our students even in the face of these challenging times.

 
