---
title: Course Registration and Campus Operations
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#utm_source=gatech_home&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=coronavirus_campus
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-gatech
---
Along with our 25 peer institutions of the University System of Georgia (USG), Georgia Tech will continue to deliver instruction remotely during May and for the summer semesters, with only limited exceptions. Registration for Summer 2020 began on March 23 and ends on May 15. Time tickets for registration are being released in groups and that process is ongoing now. The Schedule of Classes for Summer 2020 is [online](https://registrar.gatech.edu/current-students/schedule-of-classes).

Plans for iGniTe and related registration processes, as well as decisions about summer events and other affected programs, are currently under review and more information will be forthcoming.

As a reminder, the USG has asked all institutions to continue current telework and flexible work strategies for faculty and staff until further notice. USG institutions remain open, with only minimal staff physically on-site to ensure continuity of certain services.

Consistent with the Governor Brian Kemp’s executive order to shelter in place, we will continue to operate in a research ramp-down mode with only previously approved essential research activities happening on campus for at least the next two weeks, and, after that, until further notice. Although instruction will be remote for the summer, our education and research missions are interrelated, so we are continuously evaluating the appropriate level of research activities that should take place on campus as we navigate this situation.

**Impact on Fall Semester 2020**

All institutions within the USG are tentatively planning to return to normal on-campus operations for the fall semester should guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Georgia Department of Public Health allow it.

Registration for Fall 2020 also began on March 23 and continues through May 15 for continuing students. There will be a Phase II registration period for Fall 2020 that begins on August 8.

We will continue to keep you updated as more information becomes available. A communications archive and FAQ are available at: [health.gatech.edu/coronavirus](http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus "http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus").
