---
title: Regarding spring commencement exercises
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-19
link: >-
  http://health.gatech.edu/coronavirus#utm_source=gatech_home&utm_medium=banner&utm_campaign=coronavirus_campus
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-gatech
---
    

Dear Spring 2020 graduates,

In light of efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, the University System of Georgia made the difficult but necessary decision to cancel or postpone all spring activities on USG campuses. This includes commencement ceremonies. I therefore need to share with you that Georgia Tech will not hold its spring commencement ceremonies that were planned for May 1-2, 2020. Students scheduled to graduate will still earn their degrees and receive their diplomas, consistent with academic standards.

I realize how disappointing this is for those of you scheduled to graduate. You have worked hard toward the goal of earning your diploma from Georgia Tech and celebrating with your family and friends. Our commencement ceremonies are cherished traditions that go back well over a century and are symbolic of all that we stand for at Georgia Tech. These are, however, unprecedented times requiring unprecedented actions.

While we won’t have commencement in May, we will be creatively considering other options to celebrate our spring graduates. We will communicate that information as soon as it is available. We also have [a Q&A on the commencement site](http://commencement.gatech.edu/Spring2020FAQ).

Thank you once again for your patience and flexibility as we navigate these challenging times. Every day I am inspired by the creativity and talent in our community, by the acts of generosity, courage and responsibility all around us. Solutions, big and small, are beginning to emerge to help us deal with this health threat. And many of those solutions will be coming from our own students and alumni. While we are practicing social distancing, we are standing together in purpose, vision, and in caring for each other. Our mission of Progress and Service was never more needed.

Yours,  
Ángel Cabrera  
President
