---
title: Closure of University buildings in response to COVID-19
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-21
link: >-
  https://www.bu.edu/emd/files/2020/03/COVID-19-Building-Access-Space-Policy.pdf
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-bu
---
On March 17, President Brown announced that the University will extend remote teaching and learning through the end of spring semester and the closing of undergraduate residence halls to help contain the fast-spreading coronavirus.

While the intent is to have as limited a presence on campus as is feasible, all academic and administrative departments at the University need to remain fully functional to support remote education, research, and student services.

As most faculty and staff have transitioned to working remotely, significantly reducing the number of people on all three campuses during the day, we will be securing campus buildings in a manner similar to Intersession to ensure the safety of those who need to continue to work on campus. We will also be adjusting mail delivery services.

Starting Monday, March 23, 2020:
•All Charles River and Fenway non-residential buildings will be locked. As announced on March 20 (see below) all Medical Campus buildings will be locked, except for the Henry M. Goldman School of Dental Medicine patient entrance at 635 Albany which will be open until 3:00 pm for emergency appointments.

o Faculty, staff and students with key or card access to buildings and interior spaces will continue to have normal access.

o At the request of a Dean or Vice President, specific buildings and rooms may remain unlocked during the day. Written requests for special hours of operation should be emailed to Gary Nicksa, Senior Vice President for Operations at nicksa@bu.edu.

o If a staff member needs keys, their department head should contact Facilities Management & Operations at 617-353-2105 for Charles River and Fenway campus buildings and 617-358-4144 for Medical Campus buildings.


• Undergraduate housing access is monitored and controlled through a swipe card system. Students and staff needing access should contact the Student Housing Office at 617-353- 3511 or housing@bu.edu.

• On-campus dining information is available online at https://www.bu.edu/dining/.
• Locksmiths will be available for emergencies and may be reached by calling Facilities Management & Operations at 617-353-2105 for buildings on the Charles River and Fenway campuses and 617-358-4144 for Medical Campus buildings.

Starting on Tuesday, March 24, 2020:
• Boston University Mail Services will suspend regular departmental mail delivery. Mail will be delivered on Monday, March 23, 2020. Departments may request periodic mail delivery. 

o Please call Mail Services, at 617-353-2156 with questions and to schedule mail delivery. Staff will make every effort to accommodate your needs.

o Departments may pick-up their mail Monday through Friday between 11:00 am and 2:00 pm at University Mail Services located at 120 Ashford Street, Room 163.

o Individuals picking up mail must show a valid Boston University Identification Card
and will be asked to follow social distancing practices. 