---
title: "Stay-At-Home Order Extended Through May 31: Coronavirus/COVID-19 Updates"
subtitle: ""
date: 2020-04-30
link: >-
  https://www.northwestern.edu/coronavirus-covid-19-updates/developments/updates/stay-at-home-order-extended-through-may-31.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-northwestern
---
Stay-At-Home Order Extended Through May 31

Dear Northwestern Faculty and Staff,

As I’m sure you’ve already seen, late last week Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker extended the state’s “stay-at-home” order through Sunday, May 31. In response, Northwestern also is extending through May 31 its guidance that only individuals who are essential to the University’s ongoing operations can remain physically on site. All other provisions of the previously announced “stay-at-home” directive remain in place. The University will continue to adjust its guidance in accordance with state orders.

The University has teams actively evaluating and developing a phased return to campus strategy and plan for staff and faculty members once the “stay-at-home” directive is lifted. We will share details about those plans in the coming weeks.

The ongoing guidance does not change previously communicated plans for summer programs and activities. All programs and activities scheduled to begin in-person on or before July 12 will be offered remotely for the duration of the summer. More details can be found in last week’s letter to campus.

Please continue to visit Northwestern’s COVID-19 resource page frequently, which includes a range of FAQs related to the virus and how you can protect your health.

If you have additional questions, please contact the COVID-19 Resource Center at nu-covid@northwestern.edu and 847-467-4111.

Sincerely,

Luke Figora

Senior Associate Vice President

Chief Risk and Compliance Officer