---
title: Updates on COVID-19 (coronavirus)
subtitle: ALL remote instruction for spring quarter and changes in library hours
date: 2020-03-16
link: >-
  https://www.ucsc.edu/coronavirus/updates.html
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-ucsc
---
**I write today to announce that the suspension of in-person instruction, lectures and discussion sections, extended to the full spring quarter, will include all labs, studios, field research, and field study courses. The suspension of in-person instructional meetings includes doctoral and masters thesis defenses and oral examinations and all meetings of lab research groups. There will be no exemptions for in-person instructional activities.  
**  
I want to acknowledge the many efforts of faculty and all instructional staff to revise curriculum and pedagogy to incorporate remote instruction into this set of instructional meetings. I know this kind of instructional redesign takes real time and effort, and I appreciate these efforts to maintain instructional continuity. Extending remote instruction comprehensively is a decision made in consultation with campus leadership, the Academic Senate, and the UC Office of the President. It is intended to better protect the safety of all members of the UCSC community by enhancing the ability to practice social distancing.  
   
Some lab, studio and field study courses may not be readily transferable to a remote instruction format without significant impact on student learning and the ability of the course to meet approved learning outcomes. If so, this may lead program faculty to consider temporarily modifying program requirements to waive such a course as part of the degree requirements for graduating seniors. Earlier today, the relevant Academic Senate committees (CEP, CCI, and GC) [released a communication with instructions to department chairs](https://senate.ucsc.edu/archives/cep.gc.cci_re_contingencyplanningforinstructioncourses.pdf).  
  
 **Library access  
** McHenry Library and the Science & Engineering Library will be open 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. today, March 16. On March 17, 18, and 19, the two libraries will be open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. This move to more limited hours will reduce exposure for building occupants and increase capacity to disinfect library spaces and materials.  
   
Effective Friday, March 20, McHenry Library and the Science & Engineering Library will be closed through the end of spring break. The libraries will re-open at 8 a.m. on March 30.  
  


**Dining  
** Starting today, Dining Services has [changed its operations](https://news.ucsc.edu/2020/03/covid-dining-changes.html) in an effort to keep its patrons safely fed. The changes will be in effect until at least March 20.  
   
Cowell Dining Hall, Colleges 9/10 Dining Hall, Rachel Carson Dining Hall, and PERK at Baskin Engineering will keep their normal schedules. However, all will be implementing the following changes:  


  * All meals must be taken “to go” from the Dining facility.
  * No more than 50 patrons will be permitted to enter the facility at one time.
  * Patrons are encouraged to maintain a 6-foot social distance radius from the next person waiting in line so as to minimize any unnecessary exposure.
  * Food handler gloves will be provided upon entrance and all patrons are encouraged to wear them at the self-service stations (deli, salad and dessert bars).

At this time all other Dining Hall and Retail locations are expected to remain closed. These locations are:  


  * Crown and Porter Dining Halls
  * Stevenson Coffee House
  * Oakes Cafe
  * College Eight Cafe
  * Banana Joe’s
  * Terra Fresca Restaurant and Coffee Bar
  * PERK Carts at Earth and Marine Sciences (EMS) and the Physical Sciences Building (PSB)

**Athletics and Recreation  
** The [East and West Recreation Facilities](https://opers.ucsc.edu/covid-19_updates.html) are closed, effective March 15. A date to reopen the facilities has not yet been determined.

  
The outdoor fields, jogging path, hiking trails, west tennis and basketball courts and fitness multi-station remain available.  
  


The health and safety of our campus community continues to be our highest priority, and we are making several changes, detailed below, based on the governor’s announcements and the guidance of health officials.  
  
To date, there are no confirmed cases on campus. We appreciate everyone’s cooperation and patience as we work to reduce the opportunities for COVID-19 to spread on our campus and regional community. Thank you again for all you are doing to help protect our campus and community. 
