---
title: Danforth Campus Digest
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-06
link: >-
  https://emergency.wustl.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/danforth-campus-digest-4-6-20.pdf
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-wustl
---
This digest is a compilation of important COVID-19 related news and updates for students, faculty and staff on the Danforth Campus. We’ll send this to our community as needed to share new information, including important steps members of the Danforth Campus community must take to help protect the health and well-being of our community. Thank you for your attention to these communications, and for your continued support of our response efforts. 
 
Updated campus screening instructions 
The university is no longer using travel history to determine whether individuals are restricted from coming to campus. Our focus has shifted to monitoring symptoms and diagnoses. 
Any Danforth Campus employee, student, contractor or visitor who is currently diagnosed with COVID-19, is experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19, or has had direct contact with a person with a confirmed or suspected COVID-19 diagnosis is not permitted to come onto campus. All others are required to complete self-screening and reporting before coming to campus. Detailed instructions are available on the COVID-19 restrictions and screening for campus access page on the COVID-19 website. 
Important note: Anyone who is not required to come to campus to perform essential duties does not need to be screened. 
 
Spring semester update 
As Danforth Campus students were informed last week, there will be no inperson assignments or in-person final exams for the remainder of the spring 2020 semester. Students should check their email for information about refunds related to residential life housing, dining, parking and a partial refund on the student health fee. For residential students who still have belongings in the residence halls, Residential Life will send an update about plans for packing, shipping or storing of items as soon as the Stay at Home orders are lifted for St. 
Louis City and St. Louis County. 
More information is available in the Housing section of the Frequently Asked Questions on the COVID-19 website. 
 
Crisis fund established to help students and employees 
In response to interest from members of the university community, a new fund has been established to provide support to students and employees who are struggling with financial hardships due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “It’s part of who we are as an institution and as a community to support our most vulnerable through this challenge,” Chancellor Martin said in anews story about the fund. Anyone interested in making a gift may do so via this online form. Students who would like to apply for aid shouldsubmit a request here. The deadline for student applications is tomorrow, April 7 at 5 p.m. Central Time. A process for employees to apply for aid will be available soon. 
 
Support resources for employees and students 
Human Resources provides well-being support to help employees cope and thrive through challenges. Find resources to support your health, mental health, wellness, professional development and financial well-being in a single wellbeing web portal while the university’s COVID-19 policies remain in place. Programs include wellness and mindfulness Zoom sessions, mental health support including the employee assistance program and resources for coping, online learning opportunities, and a special “Care and Connection” kit, which allows employees to send messages of hope and gratitude to colleagues. 
Support resources for students are also available. See Mental Health and Coping During COVID-19. 
 
Learn about the university’s response to COVID-19 
The latest research and news stories related to the COVID-19 pandemic are available on The Source. You can also share your own photo, video or personal story. 
  
We appreciate your ongoing support and cooperation as we manage this unprecedented situation. Please continue to visit the university’s COVID-19 website for the latest information. 
