---
title: Danforth Campus Digest
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-27
link: >-
  https://emergency.wustl.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/danforth-campus-digest-3-27-20.pdf
countryCode: us
status: published
instituteSlug: us-wustl
---
This digest is a compilation of important COVID-19 related news and updates for students, faculty and staff on the Danforth Campus. We’ll send this as needed to share new information, including important steps members of the Danforth Campus community must take to help protect the health and well-being of our community. Thank you for your attention to these communications, and for your continued support of our response efforts. 
 
Updated policies 
The interim university policies for academic instruction, travel, events and visitors have been updated and are available on the COVID-19 website. 
These updated policies replace those that were implemented on March 9. 
The university’s alternate operations have been extended through April 22, to be consistent with Stay at Home orders issued by the City of St. Louis, St. Louis County and the State of Illinois. See yesterday’s message from Hank Webber to faculty and staff for additional information. 
 
Health screening clarification 
While most Danforth Campus employees are working remotely and do not need to contact university health services at all, if you are performing essential work that requires a physical presence on campus, you must contact the Habif Health and Wellness Center at habifnursing@wustl.edufor screening and clearance before coming to campus if any of the following conditions exist: 
•	You have traveled from the locations listed here in the past 14 days, or 
•	You have tested positive for COVID-19 or have been told by a physician that you are presumed positive for COVID-19, or 
•	You have had direct contact with a patient with confirmed COVID-19 infection in the past 14 days. 
If you are not working on campus you do not need to be screened.Employees with health concerns should contact their personal physician. 
Danforth Campus students with health concerns may contact Habif at 314-9356677 or habifnursing@wustl.edu. 
 
Parking and transportation updates 
Parking and Transportation has made some important changes to its policies and procedures, to meet the needs of our community during this time. Learn about permit holds, refund requests, shuttle service and more on the Parking and Transportation COVID-19 information page. 
 
Faculty/staff resource: Office of the Omsbuds 
The Office of the Omsbuds is available to assist faculty and staff with resolving university-related concerns. The Omsbuds is a confidential resource that provides confidential, impartial, informal, and independent conflict resolution and problem-solving assistance to all university staff, postdocs and graduate students. To learn more and schedule an appointment, visit the Office of the Ombuds website. 
 
Tips for Zoomers 
With the switch to online instruction for our students and faculty, and remote work for most of our employees, we’re all getting a crash course in Zoom and other online meeting platforms. Here are some tips from IT for getting the most out of your technology: 
Zoom works best with a strong internet signal, particularly when teaching. If you have a slow signal, your video or the other participants’ videos will freeze or buffer and it might be hard to hear. 
1.	Use a wired, not a wireless connection. That is, attach your computer via an ethernet cord to the router if possible. 
2.	If connecting from a laptop, plug in to wall power. Battery use can adversely affect video quality. 
3.	If you don’t have an ethernet cord (and you are not able to get one now), you have to maximize the Wi-Fi signal. To do so: 
o	Locate your router and move it to the center of the house or apartment. 
Keep it off the floor and out of any closets. 
o	Download the app Wi-Fi SweetSpots (Apple or Android) to your phone. After opening the app, walk around your house with your phone and find the place with the strongest Wi-Fi signal. It is likely close to the router. Set up your work station there. 
4.	If your Wi-Fi appears slow during a class or presentation, have other participants shut off their videos 
5.	Always provide participants with PowerPoints or materials after a class or meeting. 
Additional resources: 
•	WUIT Telecommuting Resources 
•	WUIT Call Forwarding Directions 
•	WUIT Zoom Resources and Tips 
 
We appreciate your ongoing support and cooperation as we manage this unprecedented situation. Please continue to visit the university’s COVID-19 website for the latest information. 
