---
title: "Coronavirus update for all Oxford all research postgraduates: Friday  20 March 2020"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-20
link: >-
  http://www.ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/coronavirus-advice
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-ox
---
I am writing to provide another update regarding the University’s response to coronavirus, and to provide some very specific advice to our important postgraduate research community. Messages have also been sent to undergraduates and taught postgraduate students, focusing on teaching and assessment.  

Health and wellbeing  
I would like to start by reassuring you that the University is doing everything it can to help postgraduate research students in response to the pandemic. As per my previous email, you are encouraged to work from home, or from your University/college accommodation wherever possible. We recognise that many research students regard Oxford as their home and you should feel welcome to stay here. Your health, both physical and mental, should be your number one priority, and your supervisors should make whatever adjustments are necessary to ensure you can remain safe during the public health emergency.
  
Keeping in contact with your supervisor 
Supervisors are being encouraged to work with students to ensure that where possible, there are ways to keep research moving forward. This may include restructuring the project so that you can work remotely. This will not be possible in all cases – many of you will be doing heavily experimental projects – we understand that, but where it is possible to make adjustments, even if this can only be to a limited extent or for a short period, you should aim to do so.
 
Deadlines will be extended and no student will lapse as a result of coronavirus  
If you have any upcoming deadlines – transfer, confirmation or submission – the disruption caused by coronavirus will be taken into account and your deadlines will be extended wherever necessary. Further details will follow about the process for this, but in the meantime you will remain a student of the University, even past deadlines. I would like to reassure you that no student’s status will lapse as a result of missing deadlines owing to coronavirus.
 
Keep a log of anything coronavirus-related that has an impact on your research 
To help us to ensure that any adjustments are made to deadlines and your student record, it will be helpful if you and your supervisor can keep track of any situation which may impede your ability to continue with your studies. Further detail about how this should be logged will follow from divisional offices, but I would encourage you to start considering this now
  
Travel for international students  
Finally, as per my previous note, International and EU students should make decisions about whether to return home based on their individual circumstances.  If you cannot get home, or you feel you need to stay in Oxford, you may do so and we will support you staying in Oxford. However, if you would prefer to be with your family, and it is safe to do so, you are welcome to return home. We will put in place measures to ensure that no student is academically disadvantaged due to actions they take as a result of coronavirus.
 
Divisional offices will be in touch with more specific information in the near future. In the meantime, I would like to thank you for your ongoing contribution to the University at this extraordinary time. As ever, if you have any questions about the above, please contact your college or department/faculty in the first instance, and we will keep you updated as soon as more information becomes available.   

We continue to post regular updates on the dedicated coronavirus advice page, so please check back frequently:  http://www.ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/coronavirus-advice . 

Best wishes, 

Martin Williams
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Education)