---
title: "Coronavirus update for all taught postgraduates: Friday 20 March 2020"
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-20
link: >-
  http://www.ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/coronavirus-advice
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-ox
---
I am writing to provide another update about the University’s response to coronavirus, with some more detailed information about our planning for Trinity term. Messages have also been sent to undergraduates and postgraduate research students.

I would like to start by acknowledging that these are, without question, extraordinary times, and that the pandemic is having an unprecedented impact on the way we live.  I am fully aware of the impact on our students, and that through no fault of your own, you are seeing significant impacts on your academic careers. However, in spite of the challenges we all face, I would like to reassure you that we are determined to do everything we can to support you. I’d also like to take this opportunity to thank the many students who have written to me over the past week. The thoughtful, constructive tone of these communications at this trying time is greatly appreciated.

Trinity term planning
As per my previous note, teaching and learning in Trinity term will be moved to an online format where possible, and there will be no conventional written paper exams.

Moving away from our planned forms of teaching and assessment at short notice is a significant undertaking which requires a joined-up approach across the University.  Our aim throughout our planning is to ensure students can continue, or complete, their academic careers at Oxford, and to allow them to be assessed fairly, regardless of their backgrounds or individual circumstances.  With this in mind our current proposals are as follows:
Teaching and learning
The University has a wide range of tools available for academics to deliver lectures, tutorials and supervisions online. Academics and administrative staff have been given a range of advice to help record lectures, carry out real time, face-to face meetings with students, and guidance on moving towards online models. With this preparation, I am confident that remaining teaching in Trinity term can be delivered effectively, and more information will follow about the specific ways in which individual courses will be delivered. 
 
Exams and assessment
There will be no conventional exams in Trinity Term. We are currently consulting on alternative options, in which we expect open-book exams, taken remotely and submitted online, to play a significant role. The exact detail of how these exams will be delivered is being carefully considered to ensure students are not disadvantaged by being in different time zones, because of their home and working environments, or due to any specific learning needs they may have.

As well as consulting with academic departments, faculties and colleges about these proposals, we would also like to invite you to provide your views through Oxford SU’s consultation paper which is now live. I must stress that the extraordinary circumstances mean that we may not be able to meet all student preferences, but this feedback will be an important consideration in our planning. 

I realise that many of you will want clarity on the specific arrangements for your courses, and this detail will follow. However, it is also vital that the solutions we develop work for staff and students across the University, and I would like to thank you in advance for sharing your views, and for your patience while we come up with a robust, workable solution. 
 
Projects and fieldwork 
Unfortunately you will not be able to undertake fieldwork or laboratory based projects that may have been planned for Trinity term. The same may apply to some other types of project, such as those that require access to materials that are only available in hard-copy archives. We recognise that some students may already have started a project that cannot now be completed, and that the scope will need to be dramatically altered.
If this change affects you, you should consult the course director in your department or faculty to agree an alternative project that can be completed from your desk (such as literature reviews, data analysis or computer modelling). We understand how disappointing this will be for many students, and would like to reassure you that academic staff are committed to giving you the best experience they can in the current circumstances. We will of course make appropriate adjustments to assessment criteria to account for the disruption caused.

An exception may be made for students who are already well into their fieldwork, are currently overseas, and if they are likely to put themselves at higher risk returning to the UK than carrying on where they are. If you think this applies to you, please discuss with your course director as a matter of urgency.

As ever, if you have any questions about the above, please contact your college or department/faculty in the first instance, and we will keep you updated as soon as more information becomes available. 

We continue to post regular updates on the dedicated coronavirus advice page, so please check back frequently:  http://www.ox.ac.uk/news-and-events/coronavirus-advice .

Best wishes,

Martin Williams
Pro-Vice Chancellor (Education)