---
title: COVID-19 Update to all staff and students - 16 March 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-03-16
link: >-
  http://www.imperial.ac.uk/about/covid-19/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-imperial
---
Dear All,

The government has tonight announced new measures to deal with COVID-19. These include:

  * Everyone is advised to avoid non-essential contact with others and unnecessary travel
  * Everyone should start working from home where they possibly can 
  * Anyone who lives with someone who has a cough or a temperature should stay at home for 14 days
  * People should avoid pubs, clubs, theatres and other such social venues



You can read the full text of the measures announced by the government here: [PM statement on coronavirus: 16 March 2020](https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/pm-statement-on-coronavirus-16-march-2020 "PM statement on coronavirus: 16 March 2020")

Over the next 48 hours we will be transitioning to remote running of the university wherever possible with minimal activity on campus. We have already moved to remote education and we will now do the same for our research, facilities and support services wherever we can.

We will continue to fully support our students in our halls of residence.

We will need some of us to come in and help us through this transition and some of us will need to keep coming into work to support our essential services over the coming weeks. Your Heads of Department will be in touch very soon about this.  

If you are unable to attend work or unable to perform your role remotely you will not be disadvantaged in terms of leave entitlement or pay.

We will be updating our [COVID-19 webpage](/about/covid-19/) with information and advice as we have it so please visit it regularly.

This is a very fast-moving situation and we appreciate your patience and your support for each other in difficult times. We will be in touch tomorrow with more details. 

Best wishes,

Alice and Ian

 

Professor Alice P. Gast, President

Professor Ian Walmsley, Provost
