---
title: UPDATE: COVID-19 restrictions affect additional flying in Canada, Hawaii and more
date: 2020-03-26
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/update-covid-19-restrictions-affect-additional-flying-canada-hawaii-and-more
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/las-restricciones-del-covid-19-afectan-vuelos-adicionales-de-delta) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/restricoes-relacionadas-ao-covid-19-afetam-voos-adicionais-da-delta)._** **Editor’s Note March 23: Please check [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule) for the latest schedule changes.** ### March 26 Update Delta is adding new schedule changes following updated government travel restrictions. These dates remain subject to change due to the evolving nature of COVID-19. **Trans-Atlantic** * Service from **New York-JFK** to **London-Heathrow** suspended as of March 24. **Trans-Pacific** * Reduced service between **Honolulu** and **Japan (Tokyo, Nagoya,** and **Osaka)** * Service between **Los Angeles** and **Tokyo-Haneda** suspended as of April 1 * Service between **Minneapolis** and **Tokyo-Haneda** suspended as of April 1 **Latin America and Caribbean** * Service between **Atlanta** and **Rio de Janeiro** suspended as of March 29 * Service to **St. Croix** suspended as of March 21 * Service to **Turks and Caicos** suspended as of March 25 * Service to **Eleuthera, Bahamas** suspended as of March 27 * Service to **Exuma, Bahamas** suspended as of March 27 * Service to **St. Thomas** suspended as of March 28 * Service to **Nassau, Bahamas** suspended as of April 1 * Service between **Atlanta a**nd **Lima** suspended as of April 5 **Hawaii** * Service between **Atlanta** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26 * Service between **Minneapolis** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26 * Service between **Salt Lake City** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26 * Service between **Seattle** and **Kona** suspended as of March 27 * Service between **Seattle** and **Kauaʻi** suspended as of April 2 **Canada** As of March 24, Delta has suspended the following routes to Canada: * **Atlanta** to **Vancouver** * **Cincinnati** to **Toronto** * **Salt Lake City** to **Toronto** * **Salt Lake City** to **Vancouver** * **Salt Lake City** to **Calgary** * **Minneapolis** to **Montreal** * **New York-LaGuardia** to **Montreal** * **New York-LaGuardia** to **Ottawa** As of March 27, Delta will suspend the following routes to Canada: * **Minneapolis** to **Toronto** * **Minneapolis** to **Vancouver** * **Seattle** to **Calgary** As of April 2, Delta will also suspend **Atlanta** to **Montreal**. ### **March 23 Update** Delta is adding new schedule changes following updated government travel restrictions. These dates are subject to change. * **St. Lucia** service to operate as exit-only for customers returning to the U.S. through Thursday, March 26. * Service between **Atlanta** and **Belize** suspending as of Tuesday, March 24\\. The last roundtrip flight is scheduled for March 23. * Service from **New York-JFK** to **Dakar, Senegal** suspending after last flight from JFK on Tuesday, March 24\\. The last flight from Dakar to JFK is scheduled for Thursday, March 26. **Airport Facilities Consolidation** Delta is doing everything we can to deliver a safe travel experience for our customers. While COVID-19 impacts customer demand, Delta is consolidating facility resources at some larger airports where the airline typically operates out of more than one terminal. Notable updates include: * **ATL:**Delta is consolidating gating operations across terminals, minimizing use of portions of Terminals C, D and E. * **LAX:**Check-in counters in Terminal 3 are now closed. Customers checking in bags or needing special services for all Delta flights should proceed to the check-in counters in Terminal 2 even if they are departing from a different terminal. Check-in kiosks and TSA checkpoints remain open in both Terminals 2 and 3, so those customers with carry-on baggage only and no special service needs may proceed directly to their departure terminal. * **New York-LGA**_:_ Check-in for all Delta flights will take place in Terminal C. All customers should check in and pass through TSA security in Terminal C before proceeding to their designated departure gate. Terminals C and D, which are connected by pedestrian walkways, will both continue to operate flights, though, and arriving passengers in Terminal D should continue to use baggage claim in that terminal. * **New York-JFK:** Check-in for all Delta flights will take place in Terminal 4\\. All customers should check in and pass through TSA security in Terminal 4 before proceeding to their designated departure gate. For customers departing from Terminal 2, follow signs for the JFK Jitney Shuttle for a short bus trip to Terminal 2. Read more on how Delta is making it easy to [change travel plans](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-how-were-making-it-easy-change-your-travel-plans). More information about Delta’s cleaning procedures can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival). See [here](https://news.delta.com/updated-changes-our-flying-schedule) for a list of all current schedule changes. ### **March 20 Update** Delta is revising schedule adjustments and adding new changes following updated government travel restrictions. These dates are subject to change. **Revisions** * **Atlanta** to **Bogota, Colombia** will suspend after Sunday, March 22\\. The last flight from Bogota to Atlanta departs Monday, March 23. * **Atlanta** to **Cartagena, Colombia** will suspend after Sunday, March 22. * **Atlanta** to **Bermuda** will operate as exit-only for customers returning to the U.S. through Tuesday, March 24\\. Service will suspend after that date. * **Aruba** will operate as exit-only for customers returning to the U.S. starting Saturday, March 21 through Wednesday, March 25\\. Service will suspend after that date. **New Schedule Changes** * Service to **Lagos, Nigeria** is suspended starting Friday, March 20. * Following the **Dominican Republic** closing its borders for international arrivals effective March 19, Delta will operate a limited schedule of flights back to the U.S. only. * Delta will also operate exit-only service from **Bonaire** back to the U.S. through March 22\\. Service will suspend after that date. Read more on how Delta is making it easy to [change travel plans](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-how-were-making-it-easy-change-your-travel-plans). More information about Delta’s cleaning procedures can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival). See [here](https://news.delta.com/updated-changes-our-flying-schedule) for a list of all current schedule changes. ### **March 18 (Original Post)** Delta is making additional changes to its Latin American, Caribbean and trans-Atlantic network following the announcements of more government travel restrictions in these regions. See [**here**](https://news.delta.com/updated-changes-our-flying-schedule) for a list of all current schedule changes. ### **EUROPE** **France** Service from **Atlanta** to **Paris-Charles De Gaulle** will suspend after Thursday, March 19\\. The last flight to Paris will depart March 19\\. The last flight to Atlanta departs Friday, March 20. Delta will not operate any flights to its Paris hub during the travel restriction period. ### **AFRICA** **Ghana** Service from **New York-JFK** to **Accra** will suspend after Friday, March 20\\. The last flight to Accra departs March 20\\. The last flight to New York-JFK departs Saturday, March 21. **South Africa** Service from **Atlanta** to **Johannesburg** will suspend after Sunday, March 22\\. The last flight to Johannesburg will operate March 22\\. The last flight to Atlanta departs Monday, March 23. ### **CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA** **Chile** Service from **Atlanta** to **Santiago** will be suspended beginning Wednesday, March 25\\. The last flight to Santiago will depart on March 24\\. The last flight to Atlanta will depart on March 25. **Costa Rica** Delta will operate a full schedule through Sunday, March 22\\. Between March 23 and April 12, Delta will make the following schedule changes between the U.S. and Costa Rica: * Service between **Atlanta** and **San Jose** will be reduced to one daily flight from 15 flights per week. Service between **Atlanta** and **Liberia** will also be reduced to two flights per week. * **Los Angeles** to **San Jose** service will be reduced from daily to two flights per week, and **Los Angeles** to **Liberia** service will be suspended. * **Minneapolis** to **Liberia** service will also be suspended. **El Salvador** Following an initial reduction in service, Delta will now suspend all remaining flights to **San Salvador** after March 18. ### **CARIBBEAN** **Bermuda** Delta’s service to Bermuda will operate as follows: * **New York-JFK** and **Boston** to **Bermuda** service will be suspended between Saturday, March 21 through March 31. * **Atlanta** to **Bermuda** will continue to operate daily as scheduled. **Grand Cayman** Delta will make the following changes to its Grand Cayman service: * **Atlanta** to **Grand Cayman** service will be suspended as of March 23\\. The last inbound and outbound flights will operate on March 22. **Detroit** to **Grand Cayman** service will be suspended as of March 22, with the last inbound and outbound flights scheduled for March 21. * Service between **Minneapolis/St. Paul** and **Grand Cayman** will be suspended starting March 22\\. The last inbound and outbound flights are scheduled for March 21. **Changing Your Flight** Delta has [waived change fees](https://news.delta.com/need-change-your-travel-were-offering-simple-rebooking-options-without-change-fees) for customers traveling to, from or through these destinations through April 30\\. Additional details are available on [delta.com.](https://www.delta.com/us/en/advisories/other-alerts/coronavirus-travel-updates) To help address customers with immediate travel needs, Delta is asking those who do not have travel in the next 72 hours to wait and contact the airline closer to their trip. Customers can also change or cancel a flight anytime before their travel date using [My Trips](https://www.delta.com/mytrips/) on Delta.com. To provide even more flexibility, any travel in March or April that expires before April 30 is being extended to enable rebooking and travel until Dec. 31, 2020\\. If you’re not able to adjust your plans in time and don’t make your flight, your ticket number automatically becomes an unused eCredit within 24 hours that can be used to rebook a flight in My Trips or with Delta Reservations. **Capped Fares** To ensure customers can travel with financial peace of mind, Delta will cap fares to and from all destinations Delta serves throughout the U.S. and Canada through April 30\\. Delta last week capped one-way fares for travel to and from Europe, the U.K. and Ireland through March 22\\. These fare caps are in place in all cabins, from Delta One to Main Cabin. **Providing a Safe and Clean Environment** Delta’s highest priority is to ensure the health and safety of customers and employees. The airline is regularly disinfecting check-in kiosks, ticket counters, gate areas, jet bridges, and more multiple times a day. More information on our cleaning procedures can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival). **_Comprehensive information and ongoing updates on Delta’s response to the COVID-19 virus is available _[_here_](https://news.delta.com/category/coronavirus-covid-19)_. _ ** 
