---
title: Where Delta is flying in May (updated)
date: 2020-05-08
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/where-delta-flying-may-updated
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
_**Editor's Note May 8: This schedule has been updated since publication. Details listed below.**_ Customer demand, CDC guidelines, and government travel regulations continue to shape Delta’s network schedule. While the airline’s schedule for the second quarter of 2020 is 85 percent smaller than the same period last year, Delta continues to provide essential service to key cities globally along with essential service throughout the U.S. Customers traveling with Delta can feel confident in a safe flying experience with new [policies](https://news.delta.com/delta-blocking-middle-seats-pausing-automatic-advance-upgrades-and-more-enable-social-distancing) that make it easier for you to keep a safe distance in the air and on the ground, as well as [elevated cleaning measures](https://news.delta.com/delta-clean-delivers-new-standard-airline-cleanliness-now-and-always) that set a new standard of cleanliness. Delta is also offering [added flexibility](https://news.delta.com/delta-extends-change-fee-waivers-onboard-social-distancing-free-travel-medical-volunteers) if you need to change your plans and free flights for medical volunteers. Here’s a snapshot of where Delta is planning to fly in May. This schedule, including routes and frequency, remains subject to change due to the evolving nature of COVID-19. Specific restart dates will vary for previously suspended routes due to the lifting of travel restrictions and other operational requirements. This page may be updated.  _*denotes service will restart in second half of May_ ## **U.S. DOMESTIC** Ensuring connectivity for customers with critical travel needs, Delta continues to provide flights to all U.S. hubs and top markets, though frequency is significantly reduced. ## **CANADA** * Detroit to Montreal (daily) * Detroit to Ottawa (less than daily) * Detroit to Toronto (daily) * Minneapolis to Calgary (less than daily) * Minneapolis to Edmonton (less than daily) * Minneapolis to Winnipeg (less than daily*) * New York-JFK to Toronto (daily) * Seattle to Vancouver (daily) ## **LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN** **Caribbean ** * Atlanta to St. Croix (Saturday only) * Atlanta to St. Thomas (less than daily) * Atlanta to San Juan, Puerto Rico (less than daily) * New York-JFK to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic (Saturday only) **Central America ** * Atlanta to San Pedro Sula, Honduras (less than daily*) * Atlanta to San Salvador, El Salvador (less than daily*) **Mexico** * Atlanta to Mexico City (less than daily) ## **TRANS-ATLANTIC** * Atlanta to Amsterdam (daily) * Atlanta to Paris-Charles De Gaulle (less than daily) * Detroit to Amsterdam (daily) ## **TRANS-PACIFIC** * Detroit to Seoul-Incheon (less than daily) * Detroit to Tokyo-Haneda (less than daily) * Seattle to Seoul-Incheon (less than daily) * Seattle to Tokyo-Haneda (less than daily) Delta also operates cargo-only flights between Incheon and Shanghai to Atlanta, Detroit and Los Angeles, transporting medical supplies and other essential items. [Learn more](https://news.delta.com/delta-doubles-asia-cargo-only-flights-adds-atlanta-gateway). During its Q1 2020 financial results call, the airline announced reductions of 80 percent in U.S. domestic capacity and 90 percent internationally. Delta continues evaluating its scheduled summer service and will adjust as needed.   _**Editor's Note cont'd: As of May 8, Delta has made the following updates to its May schedule.**_ **Routes added:** * Minneapolis to Winnipeg **Routes removed:** * Atlanta to Lima, Peru (removed as of May 8) * Atlanta to San José, Costa Rica (removed as of May 8) * Atlanta to Guatemala City, Guatemala  * Atlanta to Buenos Aires, Argentina * Atlanta to Cancun, Mexico * Atlanta to Liberia, Costa Rica * Atlanta to Nassau, Bahamas * Atlanta to Providenciales, Turks and Caicos * Atlanta to Quito, Ecuador * Atlanta to Santiago, Chile * Atlanta to São Paulo, Brazil  * New York-JFK to Santiago, Dominican Republic * Salt Lake City to Mexico City **Routes adjusted:** * Atlanta to Mexico City * Atlanta to San Pedro Sula, Honduras * Atlanta to San Salvador, El Salvador * New York-JFK to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
