---
title: Delta suspends Detroit-London and JFK-Dublin; will fly much-reduced trans-Atlantic schedule
date: 2020-03-15
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/delta-suspends-detroit-london-and-jfk-dublin-will-fly-much-reduced-trans-atlantic-schedule
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/delta-suspende-los-vuelos-detroit-londres-y-jfk-dublin-y-reducira-sus-frecuencias-en-vuelos) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/delta-suspende-detroit-londres-e-jfk-dublin-frequencias-transatlanticas-serao-muito-reduzidas)._** **Editor’s Note March 23: Please check [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule) for the latest schedule changes.** Following the U.S. travel directive expanding to the U.K. and Ireland, Delta will temporarily suspend service between Detroit and London-Heathrow starting Monday, March 16, and service between New York-JFK and Dublin starting Wednesday, March 18\\. The airline will continue to fly the rest of its reduced trans-Atlantic schedule [announced](https://news.delta.com/delta-reduces-us-europe-flying-starting-monday-suspends-jfk-mumbai) Friday. ### **Schedule Changes ** The last flight from Detroit to London-Heathrow departs Sunday, March 15\\. The last flight from London-Heathrow to Detroit will depart Monday, March 16. The last flight from JFK to Dublin will depart Tuesday, March 17\\. The last flight from Dublin to JFK will depart Wednesday, March 18. ### **Reduced Schedule to Europe and the U.K.** Starting Monday, Delta will continue to operate one daily flight between the following cities: * Atlanta to Amsterdam * Atlanta to London-Heathrow * Detroit to Amsterdam * New York-JFK to London-Heathrow This schedule will continue to provide customers access to multiple destinations throughout Europe through Delta’s expanded joint venture partnership with Air France, KLM and Virgin Atlantic. Air France and KLM plan to continue their own operations to CDC-designated U.S. airports and are closely coordinating with Delta and Virgin Atlantic as adjustments are made. ### **Capped Fares** Delta has capped one-way fares, inclusive of all cabins, for travel to and from Europe, the U.K. and Ireland that extend through March 22\\. These fare caps apply to Delta and partner-operated flights. ### **Changing Your Flight ** Delta has waived change fees for customers traveling to, from or through Europe, the U.K. and Ireland through May 31\\. Details are available on [delta.com.](https://www.delta.com/us/en/advisories/other-alerts/coronavirus-travel-updates) To help address customers with immediate travel needs, **Delta is asking those who do not have travel in the next 72 hours to wait and contact the airline closer to their trip. ** ### **Providing a Safe and Clean Environment ** Delta’s highest priority is to ensure the health and safety of customers and employees. The airline is regularly disinfecting check-in kiosks, ticket counters, gate areas, jetbridges, and more multiple times a day. The airline is also expanding its cleaning program, adding a fogging process to disinfect all transoceanic flights. Delta holds high standards of cleanliness on all Delta flights and is committed to providing a safe and comfortable environment. **More information on our cleaning procedures can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival). ** **Comprehensive information and ongoing updates on Delta’s response to the COVID-19 virus is available [here](https://news.delta.com/category/coronavirus-covid-19). ** 
