---
title: Delta reduces flight schedule to South Korea following coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak
date: 2020-03-06
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/delta-reduces-flight-schedule-south-korea-following-coronavirus-covid-19-outbreak
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/delta-reduce-vuelos-corea-del-sur-luego-del-brote-de-coronavirus-covid-19) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/delta-reduz-programacao-de-voos-para-coreia-do-sul-apos-surto-de-coronavirus-covid-19)._** **Editor’s Note March 23: Please check [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule) for the latest schedule changes.** Delta is temporarily reducing the number of weekly flights it operates between the U.S. and Seoul-Incheon (ICN), South Korea, due to global health concerns related to coronavirus (COVID-19). From Feb. 29 through May 31, the carrier will suspend service between Minneapolis/St. Paul and ICN, with the last flight departing MSP for ICN on Feb. 28 and departing ICN for MSP on Feb. 29\\. Delta will also reduce to five times weekly its services between ICN and Atlanta, Detroit and Seattle through May 31\\. The airline’s new service from Incheon to Manila, previously scheduled to begin March 29, will now start on June 1\\. Full schedule details will be available on [delta.com](https://delta.com/) beginning Feb. 29. The health and safety of customers and employees is Delta's top priority and the airline has put in place a number of processes and mitigation strategies to respond to the growing concern. Delta remains in constant contact with the foremost communicable disease experts at the CDC, WHO and local health officials to respond to the coronavirus as well as ensure training, policies, procedures and cabin cleaning and disinfection measures meet and exceed guidelines. For customers whose itineraries are affected by the schedule changes, Delta teams are working to help them adjust their travel plans, using partners where appropriate. Customers with affected travel plans can go to the My Trips section of delta.com to help them understand their options, including: * Reaccommodation on other Delta flights * Reaccommodation to flights after May 31 * Reaccommodation on partner airlines * Requesting a refund * Contacting Delta to discuss additional options. Delta continues to offer a [change fee waiver](https://news.delta.com/delta-waives-travel-change-fees-italy-and-south-korea-following-coronavirus-outbreak) for customers who wish to adjust their travel plans for flights between the U.S. and South Korea, China and Italy. 
