---
title: Where Delta is flying outside the U.S. in April (updated)
date: 2020-04-14
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/where-delta-flying-outside-us-april-updated
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/actualizacion-de-programacion-donde-vuela-delta-fuera-de-los-eeuu-en-abril) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/atualizacao-na-programacao-para-onde-delta-esta-voando-fora-dos-estados-unidos-em-abril)._** _**Editor's Note April 14: Since publication, Delta has suspended Atlanta-Toronto, Atlanta-Cancun (except April 25), Atlanta-London, JFK-Montreal, JFK-San Juan, Minneapolis-Saskatoon, and Minneapolis-Winnipeg. Delta has reduced service to Canada, Japan and Mexico. Seattle-Haneda frequency reduced to three times weekly.**_ In response to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Delta is continuing to make adjustments to scheduled service systemwide based on [CDC guidelines](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/travelers/index.html), government travel restrictions and reduced customer demand. Here’s a snapshot of where you can find Delta flying in April outside the U.S. This does include service to Puerto Rico. This schedule, including routes and frequency, remains subject to change due to the evolving nature of COVID-19. A list of specific service suspensions and reductions can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule). **TRANS-ATLANTIC** After significantly reducing service from the U.S. to most of Europe and the U.K., Delta will operate the following schedule to Amsterdam: * Atlanta to Amsterdam (daily operation) * Detroit to Amsterdam (less than daily operation) **TRANS-PACIFIC** Delta will operate the following schedule to the Asia-Pacific region: * Detroit to Seoul-Incheon (up to five times per week) * Seattle to Tokyo-Haneda (up to three times per week) * Seattle to Seoul-Incheon (up to five times per week) **CARIBBEAN** Following suspensions in response to government travel restrictions, Delta will continue service to Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic: * Atlanta to San Juan (daily operation) * New York-JFK to Santo Domingo (daily operation) **MEXICO** Delta will continue to operate to Mexico on the following reduced schedule: * Atlanta to Mexico City (daily operation) * Salt Lake City to Mexico City (less than daily operation) **CANADA** Following recent suspensions, Delta will continue to operate to Canada on the following reduced schedule: * Detroit to Montreal (one daily flight) * Detroit to Ottawa (five times per week) * Detroit to Toronto (two daily flights) * Minneapolis to Calgary (five times per week) * Minneapolis to Edmonton (four times per week) * New York-JFK to Toronto (one daily flight) * Seattle to Vancouver (two daily flights) **Providing a Safe and Clean Environment** Delta’s highest priority is to ensure the health and safety of customers and employees. The airline is frequently disinfecting check-in kiosks, ticket counters, gate areas, jet bridges, and more. More information on our cleaning procedures can be found [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival). **Caring For You Onboard** Delta is responding to customer and crew feedbackby temporarily moving to essential food and beverage offerings on board, while also adjusting in-flight service processes on all U.S. domestic and short-haul international flights, all to reduce the number of physical touch points in flight. Similar steps are being taken on the ground in Delta Sky Clubs, and we are evaluating adjustments for long-haul international flying. More information can be found [here.](https://news.delta.com/delta-responds-customer-and-crew-feedback-adjusts-food-and-beverage-service-board-and-clubs) **Download the Fly Delta app** The [Fly Delta app](https://www.delta.com/us/en/delta-digital/mobile) gives customers the power to book, change or cancel flights, access boarding passes, and get the latest flight notifications in the palm of their hand – no matter where their ticket was booked. It’s also a helpful tool for customers stay in the know about flight and schedule changes – providing customers with all COVID-19 updates. [Learn more.](https://news.delta.com/get-flight-notifications-no-matter-how-you-booked-your-fingertips-4-reasons-download-fly-delta-app) 
