---
title: "Coronavirus update: Changes to our flying schedule"
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/cambios-actualizados-nuestro-itinerario-de-vuelo) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/alteracoes-atualizadas-na-nossa-programacao-de-voos)._** As concerns continue about the coronavirus known as COVID-19, we are doing everything we can to ensure the safety and security of our customers and employees. In response to [CDC guidelines](https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/notices), government travel directives and reduced customer demand, we have and will continue to quickly make adjustments to service, as needed. This page may be updated. Routes, dates and frequency are subject to change. To view our April international schedule, [click here.](https://news.delta.com/where-delta-flying-outside-us-april-updated) ## Need to change your travel? We're [extending the ability to plan, re-book and travel](https://news.delta.com/flexibility-times-change-delta-extends-ability-rebook-coronavirus-impacted-travel-2-years)with us for up to two years. ## **DOMESTIC U.S.** Delta is significantly reducing domestic seat capacity in line with reduced customer demand. Following government travel restrictions, Delta is also suspending service as follows:  State | Schedule Change
---|---
**Hawaii** |  * Service between **Atlanta** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26. * Service between **Minneapolis** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26. * Service between **Salt Lake City** and **Honolulu** suspended as of March 26. * Service between **Seattle** and **Kona** suspended as of March 27. * Service between **Seattle** and **Kauaʻi** suspended as of April 2.
## CANADA View where we're flying in Canada [here](https://news.delta.com/where-delta-flying-outside-us-april-updated). Following government travel restrictions and reduced demand, Delta is suspending service as follows:  City | Schedule Change
---|---
**Calgary** |  * Service from **Salt Lake City** to **Calgary** suspended as of March 24. * Service from **Seattle** to **Calgary** suspended as of March 27.
**Halifax** |  * Summer-only seasonal service between **New York-LGA** and** Halifax** suspended.
**Montreal** |  * Service from **Atlanta** to **Montreal** suspended of April 2. * Service from **Minneapolis** to **Montreal** suspended as of March 24. * Service from **New York-JFK** to **Montreal** suspended as of April 15. * Service from **New York-LGA **to **Montreal** suspended as of March 24.
**Toronto** |  * Service from **Cincinnati** to **Toronto** suspended as of March 24. * Service from **Minneapolis** to **Toronto** suspended as of March 27. * Service from **Salt Lake City** to **Toronto** suspended as of March 24.
**Ottawa** |  * Service from **New York-LGA** to **Ottawa** suspended as of March 24.
**Vancouver** |  * Service from **Atlanta** to **Vancouver** suspended as of March 24. * Service from **Minneapolis** to **Vancouver** suspended as of March 27. * Service from **Salt Lake City** to **Vancouver** suspended as of March 24.
**Winnipeg** |  * Service from **Minneapolis** to **Winnipeg** suspended as of April 8.
## **LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN** Due to government travel restrictions and reduced customer demand, Delta has significantly reduced its Latin America schedule, including suspending service from the U.S. to Central and South America, as well as: * Aruba * Bahamas * Bermuda * Bonaire * Grand Cayman * St. Croix * St. Lucia * St. Maarten * St. Thomas * Turks and Caicos Below is Delta’s reduced schedule to the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Puerto Rico.  Country | Latin America & Caribbean Schedule
---|---
**Dominican Republic** |  * **New York-JFK** to **Santo Domingo** (daily operation)
**Mexico** |  * **Atlanta** to **Cancun** (less than daily operation) * **Atlanta** to **Mexico City** (daily operation) * **Salt Lake City** to **Mexico City** (less than daily operation)
**Puerto Rico** |  * **Atlanta** to **San Juan** (daily operation) * **New York-JFK** to **San Juan** (daily operation)
## TRANS-ATLANTIC Due to government travel restrictions, Delta has significantly reduced its trans-Atlantic schedule, including suspending service from the U.S. to most of Europe and the U.K., as well as: * Accra, Ghana * Dakar, Senegal * Johannesburg, South Africa * Lagos, Nigeria * Mumbai, India * Tel Aviv, Israel Below is Delta's reduced trans-Atlantic flying schedule.  Country | Trans-Atlantic Schedule
---|---
**Netherlands** |  * **Atlanta** to **Amsterdam** once daily * **Detroit** to **Amsterdam** once daily
## TRANS-PACIFIC View where we're flying in the Asia-Pacific region [here.](https://news.delta.com/where-delta-flying-outside-us-april-updated)  **Country** | **Trans-Pacific Schedule Changes**
---|---
**Australia** |  * Service from **Los Angeles** to **Sydney** suspended as of March 18.
**China** |  * **All U.S. to China** flying suspended through May 31.
**Japan** |  * Seasonal summer service between **Seattle** and **Osaka** suspended. * Early termination of service between **Narita** and **Manila** on March 19 (scheduled to end March 28). * Service between **Los Angeles** and **Tokyo-Haneda** suspended as of April 1. * Service between **Minneapolis** and **Tokyo-Haneda** suspended as of April 1. * Service between **Honolulu** and **Japan (Tokyo, Nagoya,** and **Osaka)** suspended in April. * Service between **Atlanta** and **Detroit** to **Tokyo-Haneda** suspended in April. Through May 31: * Service between **Portland **and **Tokyo** suspended. * Service between **Detroit** and **Nagoya** suspended.
**South Korea** |  Through May 31: * Service between **Atlanta** and **Incheon** suspended. * Service between **Minneapolis/St. Paul** and **Incheon** suspended. * Service between **Manila and**** Incheon** suspended. * Reduced five times weekly service between **Detroit** and **Incheon, **and **Seattle** and **Incheon**.
