---
title: Delta reduces U.S.-Europe flying starting Monday; suspends JFK to Mumbai
date: 2020-03-15
link: >-
  https://news.delta.com/delta-reduces-us-europe-flying-starting-monday-suspends-jfk-mumbai
airlineCode: delta
status: published
---
**_Read this article in [Spanish](https://news.delta.com/delta-reduce-los-vuelos-entre-estados-unidos-y-europa-partir-del-lunes-suspende-jfk-mumbai) or [Portuguese](https://news.delta.com/delta-reduz-os-voos-entre-estados-unidos-e-europa-partir-de-segunda-feira-e-suspende-rotas-do-jfk)._** **Editor’s Note March 23: Please check [here](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-changes-our-flying-schedule) for the latest schedule changes.** Delta will significantly reduce its U.S. to Europe flying beginning Monday, March 16, following the U.S. government directive restricting travel between the U.S. and Europe. The airline will continue to operate a nearly full schedule of flights from continental Europe to multiple U.S. gateways through Monday, March 16, to ensure eligible customers can return to the U.S. Starting Monday, Delta will operate one daily flight between the following cities: * Atlanta to Amsterdam * Atlanta to London-Heathrow * Atlanta to Paris-Charles De Gaulle * Detroit to Amsterdam * New York-JFK to London-Heathrow This schedule will continue to provide customers access to multiple destinations throughout Europe through Delta’s expanded joint venture partnership with Air France, KLM and Virgin Atlantic. Air France and KLM plan to continue their own operations to CDC-designated U.S. airports and are closely coordinating with Delta and Virgin Atlantic as adjustments are made. Delta will also temporarily suspend service between New York-JFK and Mumbai starting Tuesday, March 17\\. The last flight from New York-JFK to Mumbai will operate Saturday, March 14\\. The last flight from Mumbai to New York-JFK will operate Monday, March 16. The airline will continue to evaluate customer demand and adjust service as needed. ### **Continued Service to Africa** Delta will continue to fly to South Africa, Ghana, Senegal and Nigeria as scheduled: * Atlanta to Johannesburg, South Africa * Atlanta to Lagos, Nigeria * New York-JFK to Accra, Ghana * New York-JFK to Dakar, Senegal * New York-JFK to Lagos, Nigeria ### **Changing Your Flight** Delta has waived change fees for customers traveling to, from or through Europe, the U.K. and Ireland through May 31\\. Details are available on [delta.com.](https://www.delta.com/us/en/advisories/other-alerts/coronavirus-travel-updates) To help address customers with immediate travel needs, **Delta is asking those who do not have travel in the next 72 hours to wait and contact the airline closer to their trip.** ### **Capped Fares** Delta has capped one-way fares, inclusive of all cabins, for travel to and from Europe, the U.K. and Ireland that extend through March 22\\. These fare caps apply to Delta and partner-operated flights. ### **Providing a Safe and Clean Environment** Delta’s highest priority is to ensure the health and safety of customers and employees.The airline is regularly disinfecting check-in kiosks, ticket counters, gate areas, jetbridges, and more multiple times a day. The airline is also expanding its cleaning program, adding a fogging process to disinfect all transoceanic flights. Delta holds high standards of cleanliness on all Delta flights and is committed to providing a safe and comfortable environment. **More information on our cleaning procedures can be found** [**here**](https://news.delta.com/coronavirus-update-deltas-cleaning-measures-protect-public-health-and-safety-check-arrival)**.** **_Comprehensive information and ongoing updates on Delta’s response to the COVID-19 virus is available _**[**_here_**](https://news.delta.com/category/coronavirus-covid-19)**_._** 
