---
title: All student email - 6 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-06
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/studentcomms/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
Dear students,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it carefully.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University
Free Covid-19 medical services for overseas visitors
Assessment Policy Update
Resources to assist learning online

Further detail

Free Covid-19 medical services for overseas visitors

We wish to make international students aware that, following urgent changes to NHS
regulations, no charges will be made to overseas visitors for the diagnosis or, if positive, treatment of Covid-19. No charges will be applied for a diagnostic test even if the result is negative and no charges will be applied for any treatment provided for suspected Covid-19 up to the point that it is negatively diagnosed.

Assessment Policy Update
We are very aware that many of you have questions regarding this summer’s exams. Further to the Covid-19 Assessment Policy Update issued last week, we expect to issue a further update no later than Wednesday 8 April.

Resources to assist learning online
To support you in learning online during Covid-19, we have produced an online resource covering lectures, seminars and tutorials, labs and practicals, one-to-one sessions and more. This can be found here. Please use it together with subject-specific advice from your Department and lecturers.

Conclusion
Please continue to take care of yourselves, as well as your families and friends, and following the latest public health advice as relevant to your location.

Wherever you are in the world, our student support services remain available to you, by phone or email. If you need support, please get in touch.

Best wishes,

Claire O’Malley
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)