---
title: All student email - 1 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-01
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/studentcomms/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
To: All students
From: coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk
Subject: Covid-19 
Update 01.04.20
To be issued: Wednesday 1 April, 9am

Dear students,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it carefully.

Government advice
Though the UK’s Chief Scientific Adviser Sir Patrick Vallance has said that social distancing measures introduced to prevent the rapid spread of Covid-19 are “making a difference”, the Prime Minister Boris Johnson has warned that the situation is “going to get worse before it gets better”. So it remains vitally important that we all observe the restrictions currently in place. As a reminder of these, please see previous Covid-19 updates.

The public health authorities have made it clear that relaxing the restrictions too soon, or people failing to continue to observe them, could be very damaging and trigger resurgences of the virus.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University 
The Wider Student Experience online 
Update on building closures 
Sharing your inspiring stories

Further detail
The Wider Student Experience online

Students and staff across the University are working to offer a Wider Student Experience programme (both enrichment and support) online during the Easter Term. We anticipate this being accessible to all students. Where possible we will be looking to move established enrichment activities online, while also offering new opportunities. Much of our support services are already online but we want to go further.

Many excellent initiatives are already under way, courtesy of students, staff and alumni, but we would welcome further new ideas and proposals. Please email:student.enrichment@durham.ac.uk, or contact the officers in your College, the Students’Union or Experience Durham.

Update on building closures
As an update, all University buildings with the exception of residential accommodation are now closed. Only limited access is allowed, for key workers for safety or business critical tasks. A procedure for where entry is required to buildings has been circulated to departments and we would ask everyone to observe this strictly.

Sharing your inspiring stories
Thank you to everyone who has sent us examples of how they or others in the University community are responding to the Covid-19 crisis in ways that are supporting others in our community, local communities, the most vulnerable people or the national and international effort. You can now read about some of them on our website here. 

For example, research by our alumna Dr Rebecca Webster into improving public adherence to quarantine measures has been included in the WHO’s Global Research Road map essential references for Covid-19; and Handcrafted and REfUSE, two local organisations founded by Durham alumni, have in the past week alone delivered over 100 meals to individuals who cannot afford to buy food or cannot leave their home. Keep an eye on ou rnew Covid-19 support web pages for regular updates.

Please continue to send us your stories and photographs to dialogue@durham.ac.uk, tag uson Facebook @durhamuniversity or on Twitter @durham_uni using #DUinspire.

Conclusion 
Once again, a sincere thank you to you all for your patience and support through the changing circumstances we face. It is greatly appreciated.

Please continue to take care of your own well-being, and that of your families and friends,while following the latest public health advice.

We will continue to update you regularly.

Best wishes,
Claire O’Malley Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)

All Covid-19 email updates issued to staff and students are available online at:durham.ac.uk/coronavirus

For more information about Durham University visit durham.ac.uk