---
title: UG and PGT student email - Assessment Policy Update - 1 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-01
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/studentcomms/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
To: All UG and PGT students
From: coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk
Subject: Covid-19 Assessment Policy Update

Dear Durham Students,

The last few weeks have been difficult and unsettling. We are very proud of the way that staff, students and the wider community have rallied together, but we know that it has not been easy. Covid-19 has affected, and will continue to affect, our community in a great many ways.

Throughout this evolving situation, our actions are being driven by two key priorities: to protect the health and wellbeing of students, staff and the wider Durham community, and to uphold your educational interests. Staff across the University are working hard to ensure that, in the most difficult of circumstances, you can continue your studies and your academic achievements can be recognised.

The uncertainty of the situation, and the scale and pace of changes which we are having to make, has meant that we have not always been able to communicate with you as quickly oras clearly as we would wish. Please accept our apology, and know that this does not mean that we have not been listening.

We know that many of you are understandably worried about your assessments in the summer, and so the Students’ Union and University have been working together to agree concrete steps we will take to address these and support you in the coming term. While we work to resolve issues in detail and in full, we want to give you the following assurances.

1. Your online assessments will be designed to be consistent with exams that are sat normally. 
Each assessment should take the two or three hours it would have taken under normal examination conditions. The 48-hour window ensures that students are not disadvantaged if they live in different time zones, have multiple exams, or religious observance or reasonable adjustment requirements.
 
Requirements and expectations will be set within the rubrics for each online assessment. For example, you will not need to provide the sort of bibliographies or formal citations appropriate to summative essays or dissertations. The assessments will be marked in light of these expectations.

2.Your degree classification will not be compromised if your performance in Covid-19 affected assessments is lower than your performance in non-affected assessments.
 
You will not be disadvantaged if your performance in Covid-19 affected assessments is lower than your performance previously (for graduating students), or in the future (for those students who are continuing). We are still working on the full details of this policy, because we want to recognise differences between programmes at Durham, and ensure that your final grade will be fair and accurately reflect your achievements. However, the University will operate with a ‘no detriment’ policy, where assessments undertaken during this pandemic can only raise and will never lower your classification. 

3.Your work will be assessed in a way which takes account of the extraordinary and challenging conditions in which you will be preparing for and taking these assessments. 

This has been a highly exceptional year, and all of your departments have spent the past two weeks making sure your assessments fully reflect the disruption we are all facing. We are similarly amending and adapting our marking practices to ensure that they reflect the current circumstances in a fairway. If a cohort’s marks are significantly out of line with previous years,we will review and, if necessary, amend those marks.

4.We are committed to helping you to prepare for, undertake and learn from this summer’s assessments, so that you can progress in or graduate from your studies.

The move to online assessment will provide you with the opportunity to demonstrate what you have learned, and to improve on your assessed performance in your studies to date. 

We will enable and encourage you to complete your assessments as planned wherever possible, so that you are well prepared for the next stage of your studies or, in the case of final-year undergraduates and Masters students, so that you can receive the degrees you have worked so hard to achieve in the summer and autumn as planned. 

We will provide support if you have no access to a computer at home. If you find yourself in this position, please contact us at student.supportfund@durham.ac.uk.

5.We want you to complete your assessments as scheduled, but you will not be disadvantaged academically if your circumstances change. 

We recognise that some of you will not be able to undertake all of your assessments as scheduled. You may face serious difficulties within the assessment period; you or those close to you could become unwell. 

If your life circumstances prevent you from undertaking one or more of your online assessments, a replacement online assessment will be offered. If you are a finalist this may delay your graduation, but we will be supportive and flexible, and no medical or other evidence will be required.

The impact of Covid19 has been significant, but also varied, whether that be from the virus directly, or because of the different situations in which we find ourselves studying, working,living and caring. We know that many of your plans for assessment and revision will have been disrupted and that many of you will be finding it hard to concentrate due to the ongoing situation. This is absolutely natural and we are not expecting for students to be able to continue ‘as normal’, as we hope the above shows. It is essential during this period that you prioritise your wellbeing.

We are conscious that the uncertainty which we face remains. The principles set out in this communication are the ones we will seek to adhere to through to the summer, but we will need to be flexible and innovative to respond to challenges as they arise. We ask that you please bear with us as we may have to adapt our approach to respond to events as they unfold. We will communicate these changes as clearly, quickly and openly as we can.

We will always do our best to help and to support you; as ever, your College’s student support staff and the Students’ Union advice service are available to support you with any individual difficulties you may face.Once again, thank you for your patience in these incredibly difficult and challenging times.We wish you all the best for these upcoming assessments, and that you and those near and dear to you stay safe and well.