---
title: All student email - 2 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-02
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/studentcomms/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
To: All students

From: coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk

Subject: Covid-19 Update 02.04.20

To be issued: Thursday 2 April, 9am

Dear students,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it carefully.

Government advice

As the number of deaths from Covid-19 continues to rise, we would again urge you to follow public health advice as appropriate to your current location.

In the UK, the restrictions are clear and we must observe them to protect ourselves and others, and to protect the NHS from becoming overwhelmed. For a reminder of the restrictions in place in the UK, please see our previous updates.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University
Accommodating ‘critical workers’
Assessment Policy Update
Incident Control Centre (ICC)
Additional closure days & Job Retention/Furlough scheme
Sharing your inspiring stories

Further detail

Accommodating ‘critical workers’
We would like to extend a very big thank you to each and every one of you who has shown understanding and co-operation as we have begun to make bedrooms available for critical workers, who are unable to return home due to their shift pattern or the distances involved.

We have now received our first critical workers and we expect more to follow.

Incident Control Centre (ICC)
To help us manage our response to Covid-19, we have set up an Incident Control Centre (ICC). This is the central point for managing queries and questions related to the impact of the outbreak on the University community and can be contacted at:

coronavirus.information@durham.ac.uk. ICC staff will respond or pass your query to the most relevant colleague.

Assessment Policy Update
Yesterday you will have received a message from Professor Alan Houston, Vice-Provost (Education), and the Undergraduate and Postgraduate Academic Officers of Durham Students’ Union, regarding this summer’s assessments.

We are aware that assessments have been a cause of concern for many of you and we hope that yesterday’s message on the key policy changes has provided some reassurance. The message is available in full online here. Please note that the Covid-19 Academic subgroup are still working on the full details of this policy. We understand you will have further questions but ask for forbearance as we complete this work. We will issue the detailed policy proposals as soon as they are complete. But if you have any questions please send them to the ICC email.

We are grateful to Durham Students’ Union leaders for their cooperation during this challenging time and are pleased that they are providing a student perspective on both our Covid-19 Planning Group and its Academic, Colleges and Student Experience and Operations sub-groups.

Additional closure days & Job Retention/Furlough scheme

We would like to make you aware of two matters relating to University staff.

Firstly, as a way of expressing our gratitude to staff for how they have responded to the Covid-19 outbreak, we are granting two additional days of paid leave over the Easter Bank Holiday weekend: Thursday 9 April and Tuesday 14 April.

Secondly, you may have read about the UK Government’s Covid-19 Job Retention Scheme and “furlough” arrangements. We are currently working with the Government to assess whether and how this scheme may apply to Durham University staff.

Finally, we have identified a number of key workers who are required to work on site to ensure the University can continue to operate. Those colleagues will receive an additional £75 payment for each week where they work on site until further notice.

Sharing your inspiring stories

We are proud of how we as a community are responding to the current crisis in ways that support others in our community, local communities or the national or international effort.

Examples we have learned of recently range from the loaning of vital medical technology to local hospitals to a staff member running free fitness classes online.

Please continue to send us your stories to: dialogue@durham.ac.uk.

Conclusion

Finally, to reiterate: we are extremely grateful for how everyone is responding positively to the Covid-19 outbreak. Our student support services remain available to you all by phone or email, no matter where you are in the world and we hope that you continue to take care of your own well-being, and that of your families and friends.

We will continue to update you regularly.

Best wishes,

Claire O’Malley
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)

All Covid-19 email updates issued to staff and students are available online at: durham.ac.uk/coronavirus 

For more information about Durham University visit durham.ac.uk 