---
title: All student email - 7 April 2020
subtitle: 
date: 2020-04-07
link: >-
  https://www.dur.ac.uk/coronavirus/studentcomms/
countryCode: uk
status: published
instituteSlug: uk-dur
---
Dear student,

This email contains important updates on Covid-19. Please take the time to read it carefully.

Latest decisions and updates from Durham University
Assessments – update
Collection of student information regarding Covid-19
Accommodation fees - reminder
Updated FAQs for PGR students

Further details:

Assessments – update

We fully appreciate that arrangements for the forthcoming assessments are at the forefront of the thoughts of many of you at this moment in time. These arrangements are currently being finalised and we will provide you with a detailed update on this tomorrow (Wednesday 8 April).

Collection of student information regarding Covid-19

Many of you will be aware of the questionnaire that has been active since 23 March enabling you to inform the University regarding your current place of residence, any health conditions that cause you concern at this time, whether you are self-isolating, and similar information including data requested by the UK Government.

Over 3,000 students, primarily those remaining in Durham, have used this questionnaire to provide us with much-needed data and we are very grateful to them for this.
A number of you have been in touch to indicate that you wished to revise the information you had provided, which was not possible with the questionnaire as it stood. For this reason, and to improve data governance and accessibility to those (such as student support staff) who need it, we have taken the decision to move the questionnaire to Banner self-service, accessible as usual through Duo. You will find it in the “Student Services” menu, under the heading “Covid-19 questionnaire”.

We have transferred all data already entered into the previous form, and if you have
provided data already, it would be very useful if you could log in to Banner to verify the accuracy of the transfer process. The new questionnaire also enables you to provide additional pieces of information. For these reasons, we would like to ask all students, particularly those still resident in Durham, to check the new form on Banner Self-Service and:

(a)Ensure that any data that you have entered in the previous web form has been correctly transferred (noting that any data entered using a non-personal account will not have been transferred and will have to be re-entered), correcting it if necessary. 

(b)Ensure that the data entered in the form is an accurate representation of your present situation, taking into account any changes in your circumstances since you previously completed the form.

Thank you for your help with this.

Accommodation fees – reminder
As per our email of 26 March, just a reminder that students who will not be returning to Durham for the Easter term will not be charged for their College accommodation. Please note that:

Students who have already left Durham, but have not cleared their rooms, will not be charged for Easter term accommodation.

Provisions are in place for students who have not been able to return home at this point. No student will be without accommodation. 

Private student accommodation provider Unite has also promised not to charge students for accommodation after Easter if email notification is received before this Friday 10 April. Unite say that arrangements will be made to support students who need to stay on in accommodation.

Updated FAQs for PGR students

If you are a Postgraduate Research student, please note that the section for PGR Research in the online FAQs has been updated with information on continuation fees and extending supervised study.

Conclusion

Once again we would like to thank all of our students for your understanding, patience and questions during this time. We are working extremely hard to ensure that you get the support you need and to minimise disruption to your University experience.

Please take care and continue to follow the Government’s restrictions regarding social gatherings, staying at home and social distancing as everyone seeks to limit the spread of this virus.
  
Best wishes,  
Claire O’Malley   
Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Global)  